dear squareenix, *groans* *sobbing* this is gonna be one of those videos. *more sobbing* it's just one of those fandoms. franchises like this create fan bases that are rabid defenders of not only the works they love, but of their communities when they see someone as an outsider weighing in on the discourse. combine that with what can be defined as nothing short of an absolute hell that is making sure my understanding of the lore of this franchise is above bored, and i'm basically guaranteeing you that i'll be upping my medication doses by the end of the day! that being said, i'm prepared to be burned alive at the altar of the internet, as long as it means that i get my message across. i have a theory about kingdom hearts that i think nobody has figured out yet, and i can prove this with a clever application-- oh. *whispers* oh crap, is... is mat...? is... matpat's right behind me, isn't he? *groans* he must have heard me say the word "theory" uh... ha-*faking enthusiasm* hi matt!!! :d this isn't one of those "minecraft" situations where i claim i'm gonna be talking about teleportation but just talk about the lore for 10 minutes. *stutters* it's really about science, i swear. just maybe, m-maybe about science and just like, the *ᵗᶦⁿᶦᵉˢᵗ* bit... ...of lore...just a-- wait! odi-- diddj-- did you hear thaaat!? scott cawthon just updated his website with random pages from the voynich manuscript hidden in base15 audio waveforms! i wonder what that's about! *orchestral tense music begins* *phew*... ...i think that bought us some time. anyway, after hours and hours of pouring over timelines, mathematics, picking apart dialogue, watching probably three hours worth of lore breakdowns on youtube and my own observations from having played the games for years, i can finally present to you the secret that everybody missed... the main antagonist! the biggest *suspense?* secret villian *suspense* ...in the entire game! *more suspense!* is *ultimate suspense* ... mickey mouse. *laughs semi-maniacally* naw i'm just kidding (xd) naw, man- i wish i could prove that. it'd make some of the best clickbait thumbnails ever! but no, mickey as a character is so annoyingly and unambiguously good that i could never pull that off without some serious mental gymnastics. but i did figure out something even more interesting. the main villain, the big bad, of not only the main installments, but the entire kingdom hearts universe is... this guy. keyblade master: xenahort (zee-nah-hort)? (zeh-nah-hort)? (zee-hah-nort)? keyblade master xehanort (zee-hah-nort) (zeh-hah-nort)? f-rrrrrrr now that may not seem like the most mind-blowing conclusion ever, since, ...like the games straight-up tell you that he's the big villain in the modern era, but once i'm done with you, you will understand that his reach is even further than the games let on, and his fingers are in more pies than you previously thought possible. even if you count his, like, 13 alternate identities. this guy is responsible for every. single. bad thing in the entire kingdom hearts universe. in order to understand why, we're gonna have to first talk about the lore. not all of it, unfortunately! because as frustrated jacob, suggestive gaming and podcast now have proven, that is definitely not within the scope of a video that's this short. but all logical conclusions require their premises, and for us to figure this problem out we're gonna have to give you all the pieces of the puzzle that you'll need. and in order to save time, i'm gonna blast through this as fast as i can. a hundred years ago and some change before kingdom hearts 1, there was this massive violent clash between a bunch of people called the keyblade war. everyone was fighting for control of this mega-ultra-super keyblade called the "x-blade", which was capable of unlocking all the potential of the kingdom hearts, which is a source of all light and goodness and blah blah blah anyway, this fight was pretty awful and ended up shattering the x-blade into 20 pieces: 13 dark and 7 light and scattering them to the wind! before this keyblade war, there was this dude known as the "master of masters" and he's super mysterious... he had the powers of precognition and knew that this keyblade war was gonna happen so he wrote down a bunch of prophecies and sent 5 of his apprentices out to recruit people to survive the aftermath of the keyblade war. of course, ironically, the people that these five apprentices recruited actually ended up making up the bulk of the army that started the keyblade war in the first place. one apprentice, who dressed in the same hot topic outfit as the master of masters, was instead gifted with this keyblade. oh, right. i forgot to mention that everyone fights with keyblades because the x-blade is a keyblade and it's... i don't know, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery? anyway, this keyblade right here, which supposedly had the master's eye implanted in it was so that he could watch the events of the keyblade war as they unfold. hot topic boy was also given a box which he was told to *never open*! this guy was also told to stay out of the upcoming war. capiche? okay, so, like, fast forward past the keyblade war and the x-blade has shattered into 20 pieces. all right? the kingdom hearts: it's gone! hope of life to exist: gone! but some folks survived the war and had the light in teir heart and somehow this saved the world, but instead of saving it as one world, it's now split off into different worlds? like all sorts of worlds. most of them are populated by disney characters, and the rest of populated with final fantasy characters. why are there disney characters and final fantasy characters on these planets? to sell games, of course!! fast-forward again 100 years into the future, now we're on a planet where the guy xehanort (zee-ah-nort), uh, ze-ha...(give it up austin) you know what? i'm just gonna call him "evil moby". anyway, evil moby is visited by a hooded figure which is actually evil moby from the future well, actually it's like one of three versions of him from the future, but you know what, it's -- that's not actually relevant, but... god, this lore is so freakin' convoluted!!! future evil moby tells young evil moby that he's gonna leave his crappy world and do some stuff so that future evil moby can exist. he also, and this is *key*, gives young evil moby the power to time-travel. (here's where it gets crazy hhh) young evil moby leaves, does his evil stuff, travels back in time, back to his island, loses his memories, and leaves the island again. he studies to become a keyblade master, inherits the same keyblade that the master of masters sent
hot topic boy out into the world with and in this time learns about the keyblade war and becomes obsessed with it and... -wow i am not done yet! *take a breather* evil moby decides that he wants to re-forage the x-blade to gain access to the kingdom hearts in order to... uh, i think he needs another keyblade war? it's a little unclear. it doesn't totally matter because it gets thwarted left and right and never accomplishes his goals. what you need to retain from this breakdown is three key things: 1) evil moby is obsessed with the keyblade war and the x-blade to the point where he keeps trying to incite the keyblade war again. 2) evil moby is the same keyblade the master of masters sent hot topic boy out with, and 3) evil moby can time-travel. alright so, with all this in mind i can prove conclusively that the master of masters, the man who wrote these prophecies that sent his apprentices out to gather armies that ended up fighting in the keyblade war and destroying the x-blade and sending hot topic boy out to give his keyblade to evil moby after the entire world was destroyed is, himself, master xehanort a.k.a. evil moby. this fan theory isn't actually all that revolutionary. using a combination of looking at the keyblades that alternate versions of evil moby made,
that have the same eye along with several literary clues using the names of the foretellers, which are all each one of the seven deadly sins, save for the master's, which is theorized to be the name on the box that he gave hot topic boy, "superior", which is pride and also one of the alternate names of one of his other alternate forms plus some dialogue that seems to imply that he's seen a keyblade war before plus looking at different color themes in the various games... blah blah blah... but while these theories and youtubers have done some amazing work, i can say conclusively that they are dead wrong, and it comes down to one thing: time. you see all the theories i've seen up until now that postulate that the master of masters is evil moby, aka master xehanort, aka master of evil mobys, say that this is the original evil moby, that the master of masters evil moby was born before the keyblade war, and for some reason triggered it to start, but this my friends, is not the case. it cannot be the case. master of evil mobys isn't evil moby born 100+ years before the events of kingdom hearts, master of evil mobys is actually future evil moby who has gone back in time to see the keyblade war for himself and also ensure that it happens. but how? how does he do it?! well, aside from the fact that it's already been shown that he can time travel and interact with past versions of himself, we have to ask, is time travel even possible? the answer to how evil moby is able to time travel lies with my old bud, albert einstein. you know, look, i know applying the laws of general and special relativity to a game that claims that the source of all light and universe comes from t literal giant heartless guy, i-i-i know, okay, i know but trust me, the secret to explaining how this is possible lies within the workings of einstein and quantum mechanics. the logic holds and is important, i promise. okay. so devotees will remember that according to special relativity, the closer to the speed of light you travel, the faster time moves around you, essentially allowing near infinite time travel into the future. however, if you were to somehow reach the speed of light and then move faster, you could travel back in time. unfortunately, this is impossible. it takes quite literally, infinite energy to travel at the speed of light. let's take a look at this. this is the mass-energy equivalence formula, and with it we can prove easily that time travel into the past by going faster than the speed of light is impossible, because this formula can be rearranged to look like this. the specific part that's most important is this velocity variable. the closer this gets to the speed of light, the closer this product gets to zero, which makes this experimentally proven theory totally crap its pants. so it doesn't matter how fast evil moby runs at the disney olympics, he ain't getting back in time this way, but there are more problems with time travel than just this, specifically the grandfather paradox, which can be simplified in this easy way. if i use a time machine and go back in time to kill my grandfather before he met my grandmother, what happens? my parents never got made, so therefore i never got made, so how could i have possibly existed to go back in time to kill my grandfather? but if i didn't go back in time to kill my grandfather, that means i couldn't have gone back in time and killed him, which means i definitely do exist and will definitely be able to go back in time after all and kill him, which means i couldn't exist... all right, let's just abandon that austin to struggle with going over the logic of that paradox for all time. anyway, it's generally believed in most circles of relativity scientists that travel to the past is ultimately impossible because it would screw up continuity, which is what this clone version of me is gonna die of starvation trying to explain. while special relativity doesn't allow for time travel, a combination of general relativity, the field of relativity that deals with spacetime and gravity, and quantum mechanics can solve all these problems conclusively. while we already concluded that evil moby isn't capable of traveling by going faster than the speed of light, tt is possible that he's using another device: closed timelike curves. closed timelike curves were first theorized and later proven by austrian mathematician kurt godel who, no joke, gave these solutions to albert einstein as a gift for his 70th birthday. kind of a crap gift, turns out, because it made einstein doubt everything he'd poured his life into and hinged his career on. thanks buddy. what a pal. anyway, the way closed timelike curves work is essentially, you take a super massive object like a black hole, and you rotate it really, really, fast, which we already know is a pretty common behavior of black holes. the extreme effects that such massive objects have on local spacetime creates eddies that kind of resemble whirlpools in local spacetime and can essentially connect spacetime from the present to the spacetime of the past. we're pretty certain that these are possible, even if they're only capable of sending a single photon back in time, as opposed to, say, an entire evil moby. we gotta figure out solutions to things like the grandfather paradox if time travel is possible, and thankfully we have. mit professor and theoretical quantum mechanists dr. seth lloyd has proposed that while the rules of relativity don't offer a solution to the various continuity paradoxes, quantum mechanics does, and it all boils down to the main thrust of how quantum mechanics works. particles are inherently unpredictable. as a result, we don't know for certain where they are at any given point in time. what we do know is that they are likely to have specific properties based on factors that we know, but there's always a chance that we're wrong. so if we have a single proton that we're gonna track, we know based on our knowledge that it's most likely in this range of space here, and the further away you get from this predicted space, the chance of the proton being there continues to drop exponentially. however, the likelihood of it being in a vastly different place never quite drops to zero. there's always a chance that the proton will be an entire universe away from where we predict it should be when we actually measure it. this is the principle of quantum mechanics that saves us when we go back in time. if you travel back in time and try to disrupt events that would disturb continuity to the point where it would alter you and your motivations for traveling back in time, the likelihood that you'll be able to successfully act on those impulse reduces improbability. it's hard to wrap your head around, but the basic idea is that the more you attempt to disrupt a self-consistent universe, the less likely you'll be able to succeed. so basically, you can't kill your grandfather. everything you presume to be free will is just you playing into the way things were supposed to be, like harry potter looking for his dad and realizing that it was him all along. the universe has to be self-consistent, which brings us back to evil moby. we know that evil moby of the future can't have been the original master of masters surviving the keyblade war. he specifically references desperately wanting to see one, and all of his plans are centered around making another one happen, but we know for a fact that the master of masters knows what will happen in the future because he wrote it all down. we also know that he created this weird keyblade to give his apprentice so he can "see what happens in the future", but if he already knows what will happen in the future, what's he need the sword for? and while we don't know for certain that the laws of relativity are the same in the kingdom hearts, the logic of time travel paradoxes are solid, but since we've already resolved those paradoxes, we know that it's not only possible from a logical standpoint that evil moby went back in time to become the master of masters, it's highly likely that he did because he's been trying for his entire life to start a keyblade war and fails, every single time, but you know when we know a keyblade war happened? a hundred freaking years ago, and he knows he can't go back in time to screw things up because screwing things up is impossible. it's why the master of masters is always in such a good mood! after all this struggling, all this work, he knows, finally!, that one of his plans will finally work. he'll finally get to see a keyblade war happen because he's gonna make it happen, and he knows he can make it happen because it already happened. he caused the whole thing, and that's the only reason he sends hot topic boy off with the weird sword and makes it sound all important. it's not important that he's seeing into the future with the sword, it's just important that the keyblade exists so that he, but he's evil moby in the future, can have it. it's all cyclical, baby. a game was rigged from the start. the only impact we know this will have on the kingdom hearts franchise is a.) evil moby is gonna keep failing until finally the master of evil mobys steps forward and is like, hey, i know it's gonna happen because i lived it and then he does his thing. the main villain is the same guy you know it is, but he's not been revealed yet. was this confusing to you? well, welcome to my freakin life for the past two weeks! screw this lore i love it, but screw it! i don't know what's in the box. i don't know whether hot topic boy is also evil moby, and this is some sort of robert a heinlein by the bootstraps, but with disney characters and seeing kids i am my own grandpa thing where he's interacting with himself to send himself on a mission that he remembers going on, although that wouldn't make any sense from a lore perspective, but nothing has made sense in this entire thing, but i also understand all of it at the same time, and oh my god i hate myself so much! sincerely, austin *sobbing* *austin sobbing because he knows mickey mouse is the mastermind behind all this* (hey, you should subscribe to the game theorists if you haven't already.) *music intensifies* whoa, you're still here?hey everyone, gaijin goomba here. yes, the time has finally come. time for culture shock to cover the one game that everyone can't seem to stop talking about for the last month for better or worse. but let's give credit where credit is due. fortnite has got a crisp stylized appearance, stable servers, is incredibly straightforward in terms of its game mechanics and rules, and has one of the most unique theories going around lately that i've ever heard. for any of you who might have been hiding under a rock with me for the last couple of weeks when it comes to fortnite, the game's community, particularly on reddit, has been formulating a pretty substantial theory about the origin of fortnite: battle royale's map, claiming that the map in its entirety is based on the country of poland. and i got to agree with a lot of these ideas, because when directly comparing a map of poland to the pvp map of fortnite, not only do the two maps look geographically identical. a few interesting observations crop up. for example: retail row, the map's most urban developed area filled with shopping centers and cars, matches the exact same location as warszawa, poland's capital. to the northwest of fortnite's map is haunted hills, an empty, decrepit location featuring little more than a few buildings and a graveyard. and on the flipside, in the northwest of poland sits kłomino: poland's officially recognized ghost town. during the second world war, nazi occupation forces developed a massive prisoner of war camp containing over 8,000 polish soldiers and civilians. since its return to poland in 1993 by the red army after the iron curtain fell, no one has had any interest in populating or purchasing the village, leaving it a dry dead husk of a town filled only with the painful memories of prisoners during the nazi occupation, making haunted hills a possible metaphor for kłomino. then finally we have the most interesting comparison of all, tilted towers. the most popular drop point for players to pick up weapons and gear, which also makes it the most claustrophobic nightmare of all locations in the game. but a few weeks ago players noticed a large comet in the sky at the map and speculated, that due to observations at different angles, the meteor was believed to strike tilted towers. for more information on that theory though, check out matpat's video on it. he gets pretty deep in the science of a comet, the morse code theory, and all that good stuff. but what matpat didn't mention that video was, again, when layering fortnite's pvp map over poland, tilted towers lines up very closely to a city called poznan, and poznan houses the morasko meteorite reservation on its northern edge, which contains seven meteorite impacts that are believed to have hit over five thousand years ago. the timing might be a millennia apart, but the symbolism is definitely there. heck, there's even a theory that flush factory is actually a shadow to metsä tissue, one of the leading manufacturers of baking and toilet tissue in europe, with one of their larger factories in the polish town of krapkowice, which again, if you layer the pvp map over poland, is eerily close to flush factory. there's a lot of interesting ideas going on here for sure, but something that's really surprised me while researching this theory is that everyone's been so focused on the macro of this game. the map, it's locations, the meteor's trajectory to tilted towers, overlapping locations to polish towns. but no one's really focused on the micro. local flora, fauna, architecture, monuments, cultural takes on modern conveniences. everyone seems to be spending so much time with our heads literally in the clouds, that it's left me wondering what sort of evidence, if any resides in the minute game assets to prove whether or not fortnite takes place in poland? so i figured now's as good as time as any to pull up my magnifying glass and see what i could find. but seeing as fortnite's battle royale mode can have you killed faster than you can turn around, i had to fall back on the pve save the world campaign in fortnite. yes, fortnite not only has a pve mode, but it's fortnite's core game mode filled with different environments maps and hopefully enough evidence to finally prove or disprove the theory that fortnite is in poland 'cause it sure ain't jupiter but before i start digging into my own theories on this game, i need to make a quick preface. i have very little experience with poland or the polish language as i'm sure my previous pronunciations have proven but i've been culturally analyzing for well over 6 years now and in that time i've learned a few tricks when researching cultures and countries i know very little about. such as the first thing i started looking into in fortnite's maps were signs. you know like traffic signs. because while signs may not have much in the way of linguistic or cultural relevance, they are definitely fingerprints for determining a country of origin. for example, a pedestrian sign in japan, indonesia, and the us are all completely different. and lucky for me, fortnite is peppered with street signs. all in all i found stop, water's edge, pedestrian crossing, no parking school zone, no u-turn and slow signs and there's likely even more that i missed. but how do they stack up with their polish equivalent? well, it was actually mixed at best. firstly, the pedestrian sign at its base did match up to not only polish signs but others from around europe. however, the only sign i could find that had the red outline with a human figure walking the crosswalk was from france. (no dice there). while the slow sign, no parking sign, and school zone sign were straight-up american so that didn't work either. but the stop sign, no u-turn sign and a new one i found, a no open flame sign surprisingly matched references i found in their polish equivalents. though, they were also identical to american counterparts. the final sign though, the water's edge sign also matched a polish reference i found but the difference in color didn't quite have me convinced. nothing was uniquely polish, but it wasn't purely american either, there was a lot of european influence.so i moved on to the next subtle clue of country differentiation, cars. cars can be a big indicator of cultural uniqueness not only in their domestic design, but also things like license plates and side of road preference can really narrow it down. and in fortnite's case the cars are parked or abandoned on the right side of the road which knocks the uk and a few other countries off the list. but then there's the matter of license plates, and this was also a rather mixed bag. plenty of cars in fortnite have american style tags complete with coloured sections for state names in the top centre and colors to represent registration stickers on the top right. however, there are also other cars that had obviously european license plates. telltale signs of this were the fact that the tags were thinner, they had no stickers and were exclusively black text on a white background. but the biggest clue was the number of characters on the license plate. three, then four making seven but now came the question of what country could these tags come from. now it couldn't be english because english cars are required to have white tags on the front and yellow tags in the back. it couldn't be french either considering how many more characters are used in their plates and it couldn't be german considering fortnite's european car tags lack registration and safety seals that are required for german tags. but you know what european country does follow the 7 character white back tag format without a lot of stickers? yep, poland. i was getting closer, i kept searching through the game's maps looking for any other small detail that would be territorially unique. specifically polish unique. emergency vehicles, public utilities, all these things can have very specific appearances when it comes to individual countries and while the fire police and emt vehicles in fortnite were very american looking, plenty of other things were definitely looking european. bathrooms were labeled as water closets with the letters wc, fire hydrant designs that were far more reminiscent of european hydrants than anything i've seen the states and telephone booths, one of the few things that actually has legible writing in this game had the spelling t-e-l-e-f-o-n instead of the english telephone. but despite how european this game was looking nothing was wholly polish sure a lot of the above-mentioned items share the same qualities as their polish counterpart, but so do most of the countries in europe. case in point telefon might be the way polish writes phone, but so does german, dutch, norwegian and a dozen other languages. it was painfully obvious that the aesthetic of fortnite was incredibly european, but specifically polish? it just didn't seem there. but there had to be something, there were too many close calls just to label this game as a generic mix of american and european-isms. but i needed a break. something to just clear my head, so i took an hour so in just farm mats in the save the world mode, but while i was bashing, cars, furniture and houses for their base materials, i noticed something. there's a ton of gnomes in this game, like garden gnomes. while they're all over the place in garden and toy stores like you'd expect, they're also just in general hiding all over the place on the map in behind boxes, rocks and trees. heck there's even a daily quest to hunt these little hidden buggers down and bash their wooden heads in. not to mention on occasion they drop rare building materials which nothing else does. and this isn't just a pve mode thing either finding these little buggers is a part of pvp as well. as one of the bow passes weekly challenges the game has you seeking out seven different gnomes hidden throughout each of the different biomes. fatal fields, dusty depot and so on. so what's up with this hidden gnomes theme. fornite's already rocking the llama, so why bother with this concept of omnipresent gnomes. well, in the polish town of wroclaw i got my answer. you can find tiny garden gnomes literally everywhere in this town but only the most observant of folk will see them. placed behind door way, street corners, alleyways, anywhere that would be underfoot, but also hidden. just like in fortnite where the gnomes seem to be just about everywhere, but hidden just out of sight. now that sounds like a pretty strange quirk for a city right. well, what actually makes these little guys so important is their true purpose. the calling card of an underground protest movement organization called the orange alternative. stalinist authoritarianism had been in a pain in a lot of people's side and poland for a good long time. which eventually developed into martial law in 1981. curfews were established mass censorship, was imposed and the people of wroclaw were quickly growing tired of the oppression. so they decided to do something about it. public anti-government messages and art were quickly painted over by militia forces that ran the city, so in response the orange alternative painted over the militias fresh propaganda not with more anti-government slogans, but gnomes. but more than anything it humiliated the militia forces who had to go around and compulsively censor harmless gnomes. something so stupid that the militia couldn't even arrest people over due to how absolutely absurd it was. but simple paintings were only the first gnomish forms of protest to come. not only did people begin wearing orange gnome hats as a silent protest to the government, people began hiding gnome statues all over the city as constant reminders of their plight. and each civilian arrest made the government look even more and more petty and stupid. in 1989 the communist regime finally died away and in honor of the little people that helped bring change to poland, wroclaw continues to celebrate the gnomes that helped fight for their freedom by showcasing the various gnome statues that have been found. and to this day, more and more gnomes are being discovered with over 165 in the city found and more counting every day. well, it may only be one specific link between poland and fortnite, it is one doozy of a connection. but is fortnite truly based in poland? well, while the game certainly takes after the culture of its co-creators epic games poland aka people can fly, i'd be hard-pressed to say that the game really does take place there. but who knows? epic games has some big plans for fortnite, and there's no telling what inspirations they'll use next. but thanks for watching everyone, like i said if these fortnite theories have you curious about what other secrets the game may hold, be sure to check out matpat's videos. he's gone into this stuff way more than i have. but if you're hungry for some more cultural theories i just got done looking at an old-school enemy that recently got a reboot that takes a hard stab at one of the internet's most infamous youtubers. and if you love what we do here on the game theorists channel be sure to drop a like and a sub. it lets us know that the insane of research that we put into each and every video is appreciated. and i think i speak for all of us when i say we appreciate you too, but until next time everyone. this is gaijin goomba, signing out.today, i'm covering the highest stakes battle royale match in history. not el rubius's 100 youtuber fortnite tournament, or drake playing against ninja, ho ho no! this one is happening on a brand new map. [thud!] the courtroom! it's publisher v. publisher, game against game. 100 legal teams enter, only one leaves. winner winner, copyright infringement dinner. hello internet, welcome to game theory, where we like to cover our butts with annotated research and indestructable frying pans. now last september, news started to leak out that bluehole, the game developer that makes pubg, might take some legal action against epic games, claiming that their game fortnite, specifically it's battle royale mode, was committing copyright infringement. now, at the time, the internet just kinda shrugged it off and said, "yeah-ha, ok, sure you are", and that was that. i mean, this is the miraculous land of youtube. we're hit with false copyright claims so frequently, you could wallpaper your house in red copyright school notifications. toughen up fam! but fast forward to today, where... it's no longer a joke. this case is moving forward, and the resulting decision will have huge ramifications, far beyond fake meteors drops and thanos special events. in fact, far beyond the reach of america and just these 2 games. no, the results of this lawsuit could very significantly impact gaming around the world. so the question of the day is: does pubg actually have a case here? all this and more on today's episode of "things that affect things you're interested about but are generally too boring to do deep research on that matpat will attempt to make interesting and digestible in about 15 minutes," a.k.a game theory! (maybe i should just revise the catch phrase at the end.) now to see whether or not pubg will be able to take down fortnite, it's useful to look at other examples. you see, this isn't the first time that pubg has gone after other battle royale games. not too long ago they filed a legal complaint against netease, the maker of the mobile battle royale games "rules of survival" and "knives out," once again citing copyright infringement. it should be mentioned that at the time pubg was only available on pc, while rules of survival and knives out were free mobile games. but to say that these two games looked kind of similar to pubg would be a bit of a understatement. now you can read the entire lawsuit yourself if you have nothing better to do. but i mean you had better got nothing better to do. it's a hundred and fifty-five pages of lawyers speak that can make you go permanently cross-eyed. but it does have have the occasional moments of unintentional comedy, such as this gem right here. quote: "thus, the imaginative treatment of a frying pan as a melee weapon is made even more remarkable by its further treatment as armor against shots to the butt of a character." end quote. this is an actual sentence in an actual legal document sent to an actual courtroom. no wonder no one takes gaming seriously. careful about patting yourselves on the back too hard there for your remarkable idea of butt armor, pubg. anyway, the lawsuit basically breaks down the gameplay elements of pubg, from the interactive waiting area, to the drop out of the airplane onto the island, to the selection of weapons and equipment and armor to the design of levels and buildings, even down to the shrinking area that you have to stay within to the final declaration of "winner, winner, chicken dinner!" awarded to the last player standing. so how can a court evaluate whether netease is infringing on bluehole's copyright? well the most likely step that the courts is going to take is performing something called "the abstraction filtration comparison test." first, they're going to determine what elements in the original game are abstractions, (i.e. ideas) and which are concrete expressions of that idea. so an example would be the idea of a third person military themed battle royale. style game, where a hundred players drop onto a map from something flying in the air and then battle against each other in a shrinking safe area until one player survives. that is the abstraction: the idea of a hundred person battle royale game. the concrete expressions of that idea are all the audio visual elements to the game that make it come to life. character models, weapons, maps and location, sound effects, etc. and at first glance, all of that stuff kind of looks like a direct ripoff, right? but actually, many of those similarities would be thrown out during the next step of this process, filtration. things like sniper-rifles or body armor would fall under a principle of copyright law known as "scenes a faire," literally translated as "scenes that must be done." basically that means that something integral to its genre can't be copyrighted. so you can't say that rules of survival can't have a sniper-rifle because that kind of condition is necessary for a realistic battle royale kind of game. body armor? again, it's thrown out because it's dependent for this style of game. a hundred players all fighting at the same time? well.. now we're getting into some grey areas because nothing expressly says that a battle royale mode needs exactly a hundred players, or requires that they drop out of a plane, or that they be squeezed together by a danger zone that slowly chips away at health. you see how this starts to get complicated? would a game where ninety-seven players choose their starting spawn location with two winners and a danger zone that immediately results in death also qualify as a battle royale mode? probably. and that's why you can copyright the expression of the ideas, how they're executed, but not the ideas themselves. i mean, if you could copyright the idea of the genre, well then, the minecraft hunger games mod would be suing the dirty brown hands off of every pubg clone out there. and rightfully so, because let's face it, that was an incredible mod and quite honestly be the godfather of this genre, strangely enough. "wait a second there, matpat," you, the viewer with the encyclopedic knowledge of my videos might be saying, "in your last episode about fan games and copyright law, didn't you say that '...the total experience of a game mattered?'" yes, yes, i sure did. specifically when a game is designed to create market confusion and get buyers to mistake their game for someone else's. in case you missed it, the video explaining all of that is linked in the i-card in the upper right-hand corner of the screen, as well as at the end of the video. so if you wanna go even deeper into that topic and find out if your fan game is illegal, well... check it out. could save you tens of thousands of dollars in attorney fees down the line. anyway, one court case that is a great example of this that i didn't actually talk about in that episode is the case of tetris versus mino. in 2009, tetris sued the gaming company xio for making a game called "mino" that was, for all intents and purposes, a complete and direct ripoff of tetris. the court essentially stated that the games were too close to each other, saying, quote: "there is such similarity between the visual expression of tetris and mino that it is akin to literal copying." and based on this court ruling, it's not looking too good for knives out and rules of survival, is it? here's a test: which of these two maps is from pubg? you figure it out yet? well you shouldn't have, because neither of those is a map from pubg. this is a map from pubg. wow, it's almost like they were intentionally made to be identical to each other. so while pubg looks like it's going to be able to steamroll over knives out and rules of survival, all of this should be making one thing pretty darn clear. it's incredibly hard to win a copyright infringement case. the fact that fortnite looks nothing like pubg, that the weapons are different, that the visual style and sounds are different, and most importantly of all, that this has a whole new mechanic of building, should make this a pretty open and shut case in favour of fortnite, right? fortnite may be a battle royale style game, but its expression of that game style is different. fortnite is safe and pubg is stupid for suing them. and yay, verily, there was much hashtag boogie-downing. except, not. stop your premature boogie- downing. put a halt on your smooth smooth moves, orange shirt kid. because sure, this would be a open and shut case if the trial were in the u.s., but it's not. the whole thing is happening in south korea. and that opens up a lot of new wrinkles here. you see, korea's been very slow to create basic copyright laws, let alone even begin thinking about nuances like fair use. to get a sense of just how slow they've been, consider this. the first us. copyright law appeared back in 1790. in korea, it was first recognised in 1948. a hundred and fifty years later when the constitution of the first republic of korea came into effect. and interestingly enough, it's all because of korea's cultural heritage. you see, from the seventh century all the way up until 1910, korea's guiding system of thought was the confucian system. you know, confucius, chinese philosopher that everyone always jokes about. stuff like "confucius say: man who make mistake in elevator wrong on many level." or how about this little nugget of wisdom "confucius say: man who drop watch in toilet, bound to have crappy time." all joking aside though, confucius's teachings were all about family loyalty and a constant pursuit of bettering yourself through education. the golden rule, "do unto others what you would have them do to you," yeah, thats uh... that's confucius. his philosophy was all about the real world and serving as a role model for others so that when you die, you would be worshipped as an ancestor. this was a pretty big departure for korea, since before confucius hit the scene, they were very heavily buddhist. a belief system that is very focused on the afterlife and achieving nirvana. anyway, what's a chinese philosopher's teachings in korea got to do with pubg versus fortnite. surprisingly, a lot! you see, confucius was all about that respect, specifically respect for education. learning, as he taught it, is all about a free exchange of thought. so the concept of owning or getting paid for an idea is entirely foreign. in my research, one korean legal commenter argued, quote: "those engaged in scholarly and artistic professions avoided the monetary disputes ove their published works because they traditionally valued the spirit of nobility." in other words, in korea, based on confucius's teachings, art and education are considered noble pursuits. so fighting over who gets paid what detracts from the purity of those expressions. chinese copyright scholar peter feng stated, quote: "it's a peculiar modern western achievement to view and give universal expression to such use as a person's private right, and to enforce such right 'by broad analogy to property rights..." basically what that means is that it's totally a american idea to copyright ideas and then treat ideas like property. and you know what, he's not wrong in saying that this is specifically a western concept the u.s. has been pressuring korea to institute stricter copyright policies for decades. as recently as the 1980's, the u.s. government threatened to impose stiff trade sanctions on korea unless the korean government took action against the widespread violation of american copyrights happening in the country. "hey, uh.. america talking. you koreans want us to buy your kia cars? well, not 'till you do something about that stinkin' mouse character over there." "i'm an abomination, ha-hah!" so, what's all this mean? well because of america's influence on korean policies, their current copyright act actually looks very similar to the one here in the u.s. the korean law follows the same principles that expressions are copyrightable while ideas aren't. just like the american policies that we covered at the beginning of this episode. so once again, it should be a slam dunk case in favor of fortnite. but yet again, things aren't quite that simple. first, the korean copyright act has a greater emphasis on what's known as the author's, quote unquote, "moral rights." the right to claim, quote unquote "paternity" over a given work in order to preserve it's quote unquote "integrity." now you might've noticed that there are a lot of quote unquotes there. and that's because these are all really vague terms that the copyright law uses and then kind of sort of defines. but you know, "integrity" is a pretty difficult thing for a courtroom to define in a legal paper, specifically what this moral right to "paternity" means is quote: "the author's right to be made known to the public as the creator of his work, to prevent others from usurping his work by naming another person as the author... in order to prevent unauthorised alterations." in other words, what all of that means is that pubg wouldn't be seen as the father of the battle royale genre, but rather the specific expression of that genre. where a hundred contestants drop into a map unarmed and must then contend with a ever-shrinking safe area where being outside of that area causes you to take incremental damage, all happening in a third person perspective i mean, let's face it, they were the first to do that specific combination of things, and other battle royale style modes exist where it's the same concept of a hundred players enter, one survives, but without any of those key pubg traits. this would in turn allow pubg to express their paternal rights of ownership over fortnite as an unauthorized alteration of their format. you got all that? clear as mud? fantastic. but the bigger threat to fortnite here is confucius. yeah, him again. remember what i said were the two key tenets of confucianism? education was one and family was the other. the confucian emphasis on the importance of the family and the group over the individual has influenced far more than just home life in south korea. for instance, employees of a company are expected to regard the workplace as a family. with the head of the company as the patriarch of that family. and from all the english and translated documents that i've read in researching this episode, this "one for the good of all" mentality also affects their legal system. quote: "american attorneys are skeptical of the role of korean courts in adjudicating copyright disputes. they criticize the courts for designing judgments to promote the political or economic interests of south korea rather than to address solely the merits of the case." and while that may seem like a harsh thing to say, and i'm sure they're over stating it just a little bit, it's not all that surprising. everyone has a home field advantage, especially if your country was raised on the ideals of promoting the good of the collective. bluehole, the creator of pubg, is a korean company. they have the homefield advantage against epic games, which is american, and if bluehole succeeds, it is a huge boost to the south korean economy, which plays into exactly the fear that the attorneys mentioned in that quote i just read. couple all of that with the gameplay expression similarities that aren't 100% required to have true battle royale style game and the concept of paternity that korean copyright law possesses, and what would be an open and shut case in favor of fortnite in the u.s., actually means that pubg has a pretty palpable opportunity of winning in korean courts. unbelievable. it's like a perfect storm of legal stuff. a decision like that could in turn force fortnite out of the korean market, one of the largest gaming countries in the world, especially when it comes to esports. that would be a huge blow to epic games and would make pubg stronger than ever. but even more importantly, that decision would set the new standard in korea for copyright and fair use policies. a definition that would actually be much broader than the definitions that we have here in the u.s. this decision, in turn, could potentially trickle out to the rest of asia, helping set an international precedent for other legal cases around usage of ip and what can and can't be owned in the creative fields. so yeah, this is kind of a big deal. like i said, this whole thing is one real world battle royale style game. the smaller players like knives out and rules of survival are in the process of being taken out, which just leaves the two best and biggest players duking it out in the centre safe zone. fortnite and pubg. not just battling for chicken dinner or battle royale supremacy, but battling to set a global standard. yeah. and win themselves a whole heck of a lot of v-bucks. but hey, that's just a thing, a thing that affects things that you're interested about but are generally too boring to do deep research on for yourself that matpat will attempt to make interesting and digestible in about 15 to 18 minutes thanks for watching!hello internet. welcome to game theory my name is warf pat and we are joined on the couch today by a very special guest. where's my game theory... theory? matpat is making theories about youtubers? maybe someone should make a theory about him. (overlapping comments, basically saying about he should make a theory about himself) fine, let's do it. but be warned, we're just getting started. [da litttttttt gt intro] hello, internet! welcome to game theory! now, i don't know if you've noticed it on the channel, but my latest obsession is with a.r.g's: alternate reality games they're basically puzzles that play out in the virtual world, and in the real world at the same time. (mind blown) a few weeks ago was the fortnite a.r.g, with the burger and the(californian) dessert, the mysterious phone number and the llamas spread across europe, which has now bled into the cube mystery, all topics that i am currently working on and owe you an update about. then i moved onto the mcu a.r.g.,  not the marvel cinematic universe but the markilplier (daddy) character universe tracking how everyone's favorite, butter voiced gamer has been seeding clues out across dozens of his youtube videos the clues are part of a puzzle that crosses over between the fictional world of markiplier's scripted sketches and the real world letsplayer mark fischbach even petscop  which i am getting back to next week can almost also be seen as an arg: a mystery where the clues start inside of a fictional game they spill out into a fictional series of game play recordings and then crossing into petscop's own youtube page whether it's the halo i love bees arg back from 2004; or  fnaf's hidden clues from scottgames website arg's are incredible because they drop you into an real life mystery *plop* where everyone can work together to play but now it's our turn; the microscope is on us after years of exposing the mysteries other people have been seeding out into the world or haven't intentionally been seeding out but we have cobbled enough evidence to make a case for it anyway it's now time to expose ourselves (not like that) this summer, we dipped our toes into the a.r.g pool; easing you into the world of clue hunting by challenging you to put the years of watching me theorycraft to the test since this was such a new thing some people got it and some people didn't and i've learned a whole lot about how to make this process bigger and better so today i wanted to take a moment and give you a game theory based on the game that game theory created bringing you the solution to the first ever real world mystery that oof we gave you guys to solve this past summer so that way you all know where the clue were hiding and how the game was played so that way you are prepared for next time cause you never know when the next one might start heck it could even be today. (mwhaahaa) (hmm) (editer: it is, at the end of the vid is some numbers that might be something to do with it) (thunder and lightning crackling) (editer: guys we got to get on this) oh, and i do have a quick request either make sure you stick around until the very end or if you start getting bored and just want to click away though i can't image why you would ever want to do that.(duhhh watch the entire vid) but even still before you do please do me a favor and hop to the end of the video i have an important question that i need you guys to weigh in on regarding the future of the channel and these sort of irl experiences that i would love your opinion on time code to skip to is boop.. on the screen right now, (8:52) but heck you don't need it you want to know this whole thing played out and how you specifically can get involved next time so no more waiting lets get to exposing ourselves ---[yuck mat put that thing away!] seriously guys! stop it with pervpat (whispers) editors (grunts) one of my big frustrations has been with that with an audience of 11 million people which is incredible, there is no way to interact with you all beyond just these videos i mean think about it this way even if we went to a convention as big as vidcon which gets 30,000 attendees and all of them were game theory fans and we did one convention a day every single day for a year we would still only see 10,950,000 of you! so that's a big reason why we started the livestreams (gtlive) as a means of reaching as many of you as  wanted reaching on a daily basis but it's not quite the same as something, interpersonal irl. you know? add to that my frustration about how negative the internet and online communities are these days it's all drama and politics (boring) i wanted something that would bring theorist together. to talk. to make new friends, to do what we love to do. to nerd out, solve puzzles and have fun together. so with that in mind. rewind all the way back to february. right after we released the first round of t-shirts at the beginning of the year (dat was lit) seeing you all get your shirts and socks and hoodies. and sharing the pictures with me on twitter and then wearing them when you showed up at meet and greets gave me this idea this was the way to cross over and interact with everyone in real life at scale. and heck lets face it a ton of other youtubers do merch but not one of them have built an a.r.g. into the merch before. and if that what it takes to keep my crown as nerdiest youtuber on the internet, well then call me hercules cause i am there to (sings) go the distance ok so thats where the ides came from, but what did it actually take to solve this thing. well i made it clear that everyone who got merch would get themselves a clue. and they did even if a lot of people over looked it, it was actually hidden in the packaging, i actually thought that it was great that some people tweeted at me with pictures  of their merch bags but would also then also say that they were bummed that they didn't get themselves a clue... it was right there it is there in the picture you can see it anyway the first thing that grammar conscious theorists noticed was that the bag their merch came in would come with a typo my hope, was that this would prompt them to go online and start asking about it where they would then start seeing that the merch actually came in six differently colored bags each one with a different typo. the goal for this was to promote community. no one single person would have all the clues and they would have to work together to solve this thing. arranging them and re-arranging them by color order alphabetical order until you finally figured out that they spelled theory or more accurately t#3ør%. but then, what do you do with it? this is the place where a lot of you started scratching your heads, and i started seeing stuff show up on twitter like "i got a smudge on the back of my patch, could it be a clue? because merch ships out all across the world and can sometimes take weeks to arrive, we didn't want the contest to favor people who had ordered merch in the u.s or in places with faster shipping. so to make sure everyone was on the same playing field, we held back the shipment of the gt journals. which were the lynch pin in the whole puzzle because we knew that once you guys got your hands on it, everything else would fall into place relatively quickly. and this is something that quite honestly didn't work as well as we expected. we're continuing to learn from it since it seemed to cause more frustration than fairness. it's a tough problem to solve, but we have a couple of potential solutions in the works for future arg's, so we heard your notes, we understand the frustration (always learn from ur mistakes) and don't worry, we're working on improving the process in the future. anyway almost immediately after the journals went out, teams of theorists started to notice that something funny was going on with images. although there were a lot of pictures and text, for some reason all the eyes seemed to have these weird designs in them to further emphasize this the last page of the journal told readers to keep their eyes open. looking closer you could see that all the designs were letters and going through them sequentially you could spell out "hasmatpatgonemad.com" next part is obvious, heading to that website. once there, loyal theorists found a special video, waiting just for them. now i've done a lot of cringe worthy things over the years things (samee) that will be used to embarrass me for decades to come and kill any hopes of me ever becoming president one day, but this video is just another addition in that pile. you see it's a super creepy rendition of yours truly staring back at you and although some people were mislead by the audio in the background, which was definitely some place i considered to hide more clues to keep things logically consistent for this first ever arg, i wanted to stick with the theme of eyes. so if you were to track my blinking, it was all done in morse code. spelling out the morse code yielded the following phrase: thetheoristgateway.com. so it was once again off to another website where you had to verify you weren't a robot and then put in the final code. a color code. a code that related back to the colors in the packaging, theory. now if you were one of the lucky, and incredibly fast, first hundred finishers you were promised a special prize for being among the first to make it there. we're putting the finishing touches on those prizes now. and those one of a kind pieces will be signed by us and then sent to you to commemorate your victory of this challenge! a little tip of the cap from one theorist to another and to make it clear now that it is all said and done, since there was some confusion about all of this, a lot of those first hundred finishers were people who didn't actually buy the merch like i said, purchasing merch wasn't a requirement of winning. did it help? yeah, absolutely because some of the clues were hidden in your hands but it was my intent to design something that as many of you as possible would be able to participate in by joining a team sharing images .. - / -... . --. .. -. ... / .- --. .- .. -. / - --- -.. .- -.-- .-.-.- / ..-. ..  -. -.. / - .... . / -.-. .-.. ..- . / .. -. / - .... .. ... / ...- .. -.. . --- / .- -. -.. / -- . . - / -- . / .. -. / - .... . / .--. .-.. .- -.-. . / .- - / - .... . / - .. -- . .-.-.- and brainstorming together as a community! and to those of you who made it all the way to the end of the arg, but weren't in the first hundred don't worry! we're actually keeping track of everyone who completes these things behind the scenes and making sure that there are some benefits for you as well! you think i was joking about theorist points when i mentioned them a few episodes back?? ha nope! think again! whether or not you realize they exist, you have a tally of theorists points that we are keeping track of (that's weird mat) points that will be redeemable for something down the line. all of which leads me to the really exciting part next time! because if you thought this was a one off mystery woo-hoo boy i am just getting warmed up. i intentionally made this one quick to solve. a - to warm you guys up and b - to start working out some of the kinks almost like this was a beta test we heard your feedback! the good and the constructive thank you very much and we are working on solutions now! like insuring that no one thing holds too many clues doing videos like this to inform that inform you of how the rules and future args operate. and making sure that there are time equalizers in place so that everyone across the world can access sections of the puzzle at the same time. no one is waiting on stuff to arrive in the mail or thinking that the puzzle can be completed earlier than it can be and all of that. we are refining things, we are making them better so get ready. there's gonna be another mystery rolling out in november to go along with the holiday gear we are coming out with. so jingle those bells and prepare yourself for a real puzzler this time. no more mister nice pat you guys are an incredibly smart community and i know that you're going to have a really good time sinking your teeth into this one. with that being said, i'd like to make this all bigger! a lot bigger! and that's where i have this serious question for you guys over the past couple of months, youtube approached us about their new membership feature and asked if we would be interested in using it. basically, it allows you guys to become a sponsor of the channel for 5 dollars a month and you would get special perks that us channel creators would dictate it's kind of like a combination of twitch and patreon models now we've been pretty weary about turning on stuff like this in the past and if you've watched any of our live streams we actively talk about the fact that we never want people to feel like they have to pay to be a part of this community, or have their voice heard. despite the fact that game theory does take a lot more hours than your typical youtube video because of all the scripting and research, the hundreds of editing hours we can make it work with adsense alone so thankfully we've never had to ask you guys for any sort of funding in the past. but at the same time, others over here on the team have mentioned in the past that things like memberships and the perks that it offers are really attractive to people who'd rather show their love and appreciation for a channel in a digital ways. where they get digital goods like badges and special emotes for that small  sponsorship donation. and since this is a community that we have all built together i didn't want to single handedly make the decision about something that you all might want access to. so when youtube asked us if we wanted to try memberships, we literally told them "hang on, we wanna ask the people who would be joining this community in the first place." so that brings us to this poll. for the first 7 days that this video is live. we are actually going to be running a survey. here's the question that i need you to vote on. would you like memberships turned on as a feature for this channel? now just so we are all clear, for that 5 dollars you would get yourself a badge next to your name in the comments, that would get more exclusive the longer you're joined as a member you would get 10 or more customized theorists and gtlive icons to use in the comments. you would get access to special member only videos and posts that we would do you would get access to merch discounts, and at least one member only live stream per month. as well as other things that we think of down the line what doesn't go away, is everything that we are doing already! gtlive will still be around, game theory and the science will also still be around. absolutely no memberships required. your funding would all just be for added stuff on the channel. and what you'd also be doing is helping us expand to more cool bigger interactive activities like this arg. i don't know if you've picked up on this, but args like the one we ran this summer require a huge amount of planning and work. for this one we needed to design and build two separate websites, completely design the clues in the journals by hand and then print, manufacture, and randomize six different kinds of packaging to do the merch. to do that, we needed a lot of help. so you joining the membership program would just allow us to make future puzzles bigger and better! with more steps along the way! allowing more people to play and making the prizes even more special :) so i really need you to vote! click the link in the top of the description to cast your vote. either yes, no, or meh, i don't care. a vote for yes, enables us to do more interactive puzzles and args with you, not just with merch but even in our regular episodes! who knows?! the next one may have even just started! honestly, the last seven years of watching this channel has showed all of you to look for stuff like in code and html files how to convert jpegs to .txt files or how to run audio through a specter graph to reveal hidden messages even on the live streams we've been leaving you with hidden messages for almost 3 years as cryptograms in the backgrounds! don't worry! there are still a lot of tricks up my sleeve. but i need to know whether this is something you're interest in. or honestly, whether you'd rather just get your 16 minute theory every week and then be on your way. cuz let me tell ya, if that's all you want, it makes my life a heck of a lot easier! but at the end of the day it's all about making this channel something that you're gonna be excited about now and another 10 million subscribers from now. and making these sorts of games is fun for me! but if you don't like them, well. then. i'll just.. make them for myself.. i guess.. alright! so this is your chance to dictate the future of this channel. like captain planet says, "the power is yours!" don't let your vote go to waste. and let me honestly know what you think. like i said, this community is something i marvel at every single day. and i am so proud that we have been able to build it up to this level but a decision like this, is just too big. i don't want to deprive you of features that you might want, but at the same time i don't want to turn on something that makes some of you feel alienated. so i really need your opinion on this. i've been of two minds of it this entire time and regardless, don't worry. because more games and more theories will be on the way! thank you guys for your opinion, your enthusiasm, and for watching. i'll see you all next week!dear bethesda, what the heck is going on with the rest of the world? crap! i forgot to say the thing. hi, it's me, austin. you thought i was done with you, didn't you? but nope! i got all sorts of crap rattling inside of my head to overanalyze the powers of science and today i'm finally going to tackle the biggest question that's always bugged me the plague on my brain for years that i've wondered about what is going on with the rest of the world outside of the united states in the fallout games? we have a lot to tackle today from extensive nerdy nitty gritty lore social sciences global trade numbers ecology meteorology and god knows how much elsa let's get down to business to defeat the todd okay, that was terrible, but i have bronchitis right now and i regret nothing! all right so my show is called the science, so let's do some legit science using the scientific method step one is ask a question and we did that what the hell is going on in the rest of the world step two is do some background research which we'll get to in a second. we're gonna skip to step number three the most fun part construct a hypothesis, i think given all we know about fallout lore from the size of the nukes the strike zones of various countries and all the data given to us in the games that most of the world specifically countries in africa south america and switzerland specifically are thriving as futuristic utopias while the rest of the world looks like well like this before we can go over why this is well step aside real quick and flex my shoddycast muscles and let an old friend of mine carry us a bit tamriel in the back twin times before the bombs dropped america was 12 it was different starvation was rampant cars sat in front of houses undriven people were hiding in their homes encouraged by the united states government to avoid ice cream socials because of a virulent disease known as the new plague that was ravaging the world and in april 1952 the resource wars began as oil fields across the world ran dry nation fought against nation over the last drops of fossil fuel that they needed to keep the exponentially increasing demands for energy met europe went to war with the middle east of a rising oil prices in less than three months after the resource wars began the united nations crumbled the resource wars dragged on for generations erupting in battlefields and proxy wars across the entire globe for 25 years the biggest superpowers with the biggest energy demands burned away the last vestiges of the very resources they were fighting over until there was nothing left in the end it was between the united states and the chinese red-state america had annexed mexico and canada to complete supply lines dominating finally and officially the entirety of the continent in 2066 westtech unveiled the first crude micro fusion cell a technology that would revolutionize the world and alleviate energy demands everywhere by using hydrogen the most abundant element in the entire universe as a source of fuel unfortunately, it was too little too late in spite of their best efforts micro fusion technology just couldn't hit the mainstream market fast enough to stop the inevitable 13 years later on october 23rd 2077 at 9:47 in the morning eastern time nuclear fire erupted across the united states in two hours as dictated by the mutually assured destruction military doctrine every nuclear capable nation on earth launched their arsenal's on their and one ten millionth of a percent of the total time humanity has been on earth directly humanity was changed forever and this is now the world we live in anyway, this is most of the lore that you'll need but here's some extra the bombs used primarily in the great war the event that caused the world of fallout were relatively small relatively agreeing to fallout one manual which like if you're an aspiring lore science junkie, i highly recommend because this thing is deeply researched. it's bananas anyway, according to the manual most huge tsar bomba style bombs had been retired because smaller bombs could actually potentially be more destructive because they don't launch radioactive fallout nearly as high into the air but instead pepper it down in the surrounding area where it can cause lasting irreparable harm to local residents and environment in a science video that i did approximately 100 years ago. i calculated that it would take approximately sixty six thousand six hundred and seventy six of these weapons to turn america including mexico and canada, china china russia europe and the middle east into the irradiated useless wastes that we see today which is a lot of nukes when fission bombs bombs that are created by forcing fissile material like uranium to undergo a nuclear chain reaction where the atomic bits flying off piece by piece trigger other atoms to fling other bits off which yada-yada-yada which releases ammok but ton of energy in the form of heat and gamma rays which are high-energy photons they blast apart as this energy expands and unfortunately, most of the fissile material doesn't actually get to react instead these highly radioactive metals vaporize and get spread out in a hot dust cloud this is what radioactive fallout is it literally, you know falls out of the sky most of the radioactive material is carried up into the hot clouds of gas that rise from ground zero known a mushroom cloud because well look at it anyway and really high-energy detonations that are measured in megatons. these clouds can rise really high into the air into the troposphere where most of the radioactive material will hang out for well a pretty long time the negative is that this will block sunlight across the globe as the debris spreads across the earth which in the case of one detonation is not that huge of a deal but in the event of something like fallout. oh god, this would create a nuclear winter that could last for god knows how long thankfully though in the day and age of fallouts great war the nukes were much smaller since there's diminishing returns on the destructive blast radius with higher yields, which requires exponentially more uranium to create exponentially diminishing blast zones with an exponentially increasing cost to construct them and at 750 kilotons most nuclear. debris won't reach the troposphere forgoing a nuclear induced death cloud of winter this also has the added bonus of making the bombs infinitely more deadly since all that dangerous radioactive metal will rain down on anybody unfortunate enough to have survived the initial blast seeping into the dirt plants and working its way up the food chain into animals and humans, where it will cause all sorts of cancers just all of them all the cancers. why am i telling you all of this? why go over the well, okay, not really the nitty-gritty because i really wanted to get into the detailed physics of mushroom clouds but there's no time anyway why focus on the bomb sizes so much because well it turns out that this smaller yield of bomb completely changes the global impact of a massive scale nuclear war for one thing it narrows the impact of radioactive materials to the local areas mainly in this case the united states europe russia and china china and in order to understand why this is important in figuring out how the other countries in the world are faring we got to talk about the military doctrine that makes this all possible mutually assured destruction mutually assured destruction shortened to mad as in you'd have to be out of your freakin mind to put this theory to the test is a military doctrine that became gospel during the cold war with the invention of nuclear weaponry and the proof that they were utterly devastating during her oshima and nagasaki owners of these demonstrably destructive weapons capable of up ending entire regions silently agreed to a basic idea i won't nuke you if you do not nuke me if anybody broke this agreement all hell would break loose and well everyone would die. but the most important thing to keep in mind is that while the gun is pointed at everyone's head it's only pointed at the heads of those who are armed it's a mexican standoff where everyone with a gun is at risk, but if you don't have a gun you're not even playing the same game. so in the case of the great war only nuclear powers are at risk meaning people who either have no nuclear capability or at least not a significant enough one to be a large threat are off the table? which means? specifically only major countries that were fighting in the resource wars, china southeast asia russia europe, the middle east and north america are target's this means that countries in africa safer perhaps egypt in angola large oil exporters and south america except for probably venezuela are not only safe from nuclear oblivion, but are probably thriving but why would these nations thrive in a world where? 80% of the world economies have been obliterated and all energy reserves are gone one word nuclear not one word. oh my god. i can't even count two words nuclear fusion nuclear fusion and more specifically microfusion was on track to stop the resource wars and by extension the great war by providing the world with basically infinite energy for everything but it couldn't spread fast enough hydrogen the fuel that's easiest to fuse also happens to be the most abundant element in the universe with the biggest antagonists and exploiters on the planet out of the way african and south american countries have a massive power vacuum to fill with little to no resistance and now effectively infinite energy now things would be rough to start with the united states netherlands germany. france, china, spain, canada belgium and italy all ranked in the top 10 food exporters in the world. where asbury kina faso cameroon central african republic chad democratic republic of congo djibouti eritrea and ethiopia are all in the top ten food importers in the world meaning that they don't have the capacity at the moment to grow their own food sustainably for their population africa and south america are among the richest regions on earth when it comes to natural resources and while the global trade bounds would totally be screwed for years maybe even decades having survived the nuclear holocaust with governments and social programs intact and their biggest competitors and most importantly exploiters out of the picture and the biggest energy advancement in history at their disposal. these countries would be blowing the hell up metaphorically even food isn't a problem because brazil is one of the largest food exporters in the entire world working together these nations could dominate the planet, but if that's the case why don't we see them in falls one through four? why aren't they colonizing? well for a few reasons one, why would they america china russia? they suck now, they're radioactive drained of natural resources why bother screw them let them rot too? maybe they do a little bit the rangers in fallout new vegas are mentioned as having fought in baja against a strong military as the new california republic attempts to spread south they could easily be coming into conflict with south american colonies and militaries and three maybe they're all dead wait, i just realized they could all actually be dead oh god, maybe everyone is actually doomed did i missed at all dangit? alright, let's take a look at this magnitude messed it again. okay, can't really experiment other than dropping real nukes. i'll just cross this bit out and put overthink stuff. i think there was something yeah, here it is it models from the latest studies in the effects of nuclear war involving an exchange of only 100 world war two sized nukes many times smaller than the ones used in fallout and much less than my conservative estimate of 66,000 there'd be global famine and death regardless of location due to a global temperature drop of over six six degrees celsius on average shortening growing seasons to just a couple of months in the hottest places on earth and even then they might not get enough sun to actually grow anything but why why is this happening? if the nukes aren't launching radioactive fallout high enough to cause nuclear winter because it isn't caused by the initial explosions. it's caused by the aftermath raging inferno nuclear weapons are hot enough to light concrete on fire and the fires that would rage for months maybe years afterwards would dump tons literal tons of soot and ash into the air more specifically hot ash would rise into the stratosphere a peer would absorb and reflect sunlight away from the earth be in a sense of why this is a bad thing check out this wind model from earth dot null schoolnet this is wind patterns on the surface nuclear fallout would stay largely regional here moving a bit but not a lot but this is wind at the stratosphere so it would rise up from the nations that were bombed for literal months and sweep across the entire northern hemisphere before slowly seeping into the south blocking the sun across the entire globe in less than a year this would last for decades making growing food utterly impossible and food stores would be entirely exhausted in a couple years tops new hypothesis these countries the entire world is doomed the only countries to survive are the americans hidden in vaults that aren't experimental vaults meant to drive them insane anybody who hid in china and russia and the entirety of switzerland? which has enough fallout shelters right now to protect their entire population. this is really it this is it you know, what sucks the most about this. this is the best-case scenario the fallout games are the best case scenario should mutually assured destruction be realized what's far more likely is the complete and total extinction of every human on earth great just wonderful, oh and just for fun there's still over fourteen thousand nuclear warheads on earth right now nowhere near the amount needed to fallout to fly the entire western and eastern civilization but way more than enough to create global famine many times over great, we're all doomed yay sincerely, austin, oh hey sela, subscribe to the channel i barely have my breath anymore cuz course i got sick after moving to a new city over several hundred miles and my chest is barely working. so let's get down to business to subscribe to us youhello internet! welcome to game theory, where the closest
to failing a test i ever came was my driver’s test. no joke. i was one point away. in ohio, we have this maneuverability test
which tests zero real life skills. just give us a parallel parking challenge! it would have saved me so much embarrassment
during my first six years out in la until i finally forced myself to learn! but enough about me! let’s talk mario kart! loyal theorists might remember last year when
i determined that mario kart 8 to be mario’s deadliest game. for those who haven’t seen the video and
are too lazy to click on the i-card, i calculated that the in-game collisions is as powerful
as 2000 times the force of gravity. and these collisions occur multiple times
every game. tl;dr: racers in mario kart are more dead
than the ugandan knuckles meme. but, oh, dear viewers, these high speed collisions
are just the beginning. it gets so...so much worse. so today, we rise to the occasion and calculate
the lethality of mario kart’s most feared, and most deadly weapon. no reggie, not the blooper. i'm talking about the blue shell. the victory slayer. the great equalizer which, upon usage, soars
towards the racer is first place, circles around them like a vulture circling its prey
then dives down, stopping them dead in their tracks as the shell explodes into a fiery
inferno. so how deadly is this weapon of mass destruction? lets crack out the physics textbooks and find
out. the key to determining the force of the blue
shell lies with momentum. momentum is a measurement of the motion of
an object and is calculated by multiplying the mass of the object by its velocity. a light mass, moving at slow speeds is not
going to have very much momentum. a light mass, moving at a fast speed is going
to have some more momentum. and a heavy mass, moving at fast speeds is
going to have the most momentum.] it’s like me bowling. i’m weak...obviously...so i can throw a
light 8 pound ball quickly or a heavier 16 pound ball slowly. both are going to yield roughly the same amount
of momentum and knock down the same amount of pins. were i to throw the heavy ball faster, theoretically,
i would knock down more pins except my aim sucks, so it’d just end up in the gutter. and if you are wondering why momentum is written
with the variable “p”, i honestly don't know. probably just trying to put the p into ap
physics. additionally, we need to take a look at one
more physics concept: impulse. impulse is a measurement of the total momentum
transferred by an action, and it is calculated by multiplying force times time.[ say i’m
playing home run contest in smash, and there are two sandbags. i punch the first one for 2 seconds with a
force of 100 newtons. then i punch the second one for 1 second with
a force of 200 newtons. although, i punched the bags with different
forces for different amounts of time, both actions had the same amount of impulse. therefore, it is expected that the bags would
fly the same distance.[5] and if you are wondering why impulse is written with the variable “j”,
i honestly don't know that either. physicists are some of the most mysterious
people known to mankind.15 now, if we can calculate the change in momentum
caused by the blue shell, we will be able to find its force. change is momentum is equal to the momentum
before the shell hits you and the momentum after the shell hits you. the momentum of the shell after it hits you
is simply zero. you are no longer moving, so no matter what
your mass is, you have a momentum of zero. finding the momentum before the shell slams
into you is going to be a lot more difficult. now, in my last mario kart video, i determined
that the fastest character/kart combination is dry bowser in the b dasher with slick wheels
and a super glider. i found that at max speed, dry bowser can
travel 180 km/h or 50 m/s. for fellow americans, that translates to over
110 mph. this is far from a light joy ride through
toad harbor. these races are extreme. if you want to know how i found all that,
the math is in the video hiding in that i-card in the upper-right hand corner of the screen. the teaser tag should be popping out right...now! [meow bit from super troopers] so, we know
his speed, but now we need to determine his mass. in mario kart 8, the game uses a system of
hidden statistics to define a given character’s attributes. acceleration, on-road traction, off-road traction,
and of course, weight. and i was able to track down a chart of these
hidden stats. dry bowser is listed as having a mass of 9. that’s the good news. the bad news as that this number is unitless,
so we have no clue what that actually translates to. however, i have one more ace up my sleeve...and
that ace is mario jumpman mario himself. in mario kart 8 deluxe, mario has a weight
of 6 units. now, in a past video by fellow game theorist
austin, he used mario sunshine’s water propulsion to calculate mario’s weight at just under
90 kg or 198 pounds.] but i don’t trust austin. he shouts too much. [austin: hey! i am offended!] plus, this is my show and i don’t want to
give him the sole glory of calculating mario’s weight, so i found another way to verify it. if mario is indeed 89.94 kg like austin says,
and in mario kart, mario is the equivalent of 6 units in weight, then one weight unit
would be about 15 kg. knowing that, let’s look at the karts. in mario kart, the standard kart weighs 2
units, the standard wheels weigh 2 units as well, and the super glider weighs 1 unit. add these together, and the standard kart
weighs 5 in-game units. 5 times 15 gets us 75 kg. and how much does a stand ard go-kart weigh
in real life? wouldn’t you know it...75 kilograms. it’s almost as if nintendo planned it 
that way! no...there’s no way, right? right, reggie? reggie: what’s wrong with you? a lot of things, reggie. but that’s for another day. seriously, though, if only you guys put as
much thought into the zelda timeline! reggie: not my problem. where are my donuts? way to pass the blame there, buddy! anyway, that’s all the proof i need! by the power vested in me, under the province
of the mushroom kingdom, i officially certify mario’s weight to be 90 kg...89.94 kg to
be exact.so with mario’s height and weight certified, we have now created a standardized
system of weights and measures that can be used across all of the mario universe. it is like the metric system, but a lot, and
i mean a lot, nerdier. it also means we can finally determine dry
bowser’s mass. dry bowser weighs 9 units, the b dasher weighs
3 units, the slick wheels weigh 3 units and the super glider weighs 1 unit. add this all up and dry bowser in his fastest
kart combination weighs 16 total units. with each unit representing 14.99 kg, we can
determine the mass of dry bowser and his kart to be 239.84 kg. remember that momentum is equal to speed times
mass. therefore, the 240 kg dry bowser traveling
at a speed of 50 m/s would have a momentum of 11,992 newton-seconds. but that’s just dry bowser. we’re here to calculate the devastating
power of the blue shell, which is able to stop that amount of momentum almost instantaneously. and that means we need to know the blue shell’s
impulse. impulse is a force applied over a period of
time. so it equals f times t. it also equals the change in momentum, which
we already know. the change in momentum the blue shell causes
is 11,992 newton-seconds, aka dry bowser going from top speed to a dead stop. so if we want to know the destructive force
the blue shell is delivering in that moment, all we need to do is eliminate time from our
equation. lucky for us, mario kart 8 deluxe runs at
a silky smooth 60 frames per second and it takes 33 frames for a blue shell to bring
you to a stop, so divide that by 60 frames per second and the time is calculated to be
0.55 seconds. f times 0.55 = 11,992. divide by 0.55, and we get that the blue shell
would need a force of 21,803 newtons to stop the speeding dry bowser. but it gets even more dangerous. you see, that 22,000 newtons would apply if
the blue shell hit its victims head on. the blue shell takes it one step further,
diving into you at an alarmingly steep 60 degree angle. using trigonometry, i found that blue shells
would require double the force, 43,607 n flying right at the racer’s cranium in order to
stop them in their tracks. compare that number to the bullet bill episode
where i found that bullet bills have a force of 2570 newtons.this is 20 times the force
of that. in last year’s mario kart episode, i found
that in a worst case scenario, some impacts in the game reach 2000 g’s. the blue shell has a force of nearly 4,000
gs! in other words, why try competing to be in
the lead when you can just kill of the player in first with your blue shell. ‘cause that’s what’s happening here! it’s like sending the most family friendly
hitman to someone who, sorry, was just better that you in a stupid party racing video game! but as any player who’s in second place
knows, it’s not the impact that gets ya, it’s the explosion around it! using more pixel measurements, the maximum
blast radius is found to be 3.1 meters. there’s a handy dandy formula, named “brode’s
method” that we can use to determine the energy of this explosion.[12] i’ve mentioned
it before during the “how deadly is bob-omb” episode, but since it’s a lot more math,
i’m just going to speed it up: the first variable in this equation of death
is pressure. pressure is equal to force divide by area. as calculated earlier, the head on force required
to stop dry bowser at max speed is 21803 n. unlike with the blue shell, the explosion
force is head on, and not at any angle. using pixel measurements and mario as our
newly certified ruler, i found that dry bowser has a cross section 1.87 square meters while
racing. therefore, the pressure of the blast wave
would have to be 21803 n divided by 1.87 m2​ ​, or 11616 pascals. the pressure of the outside environment would
be simply be one atmosphere, which can be translated to 101325 pascals. additionally the volume is easy to find, as
all you need to do is determine the volume of a hemisphere with a radius of 3.1 m. the formula of 2/3 * π * r3​ ​ calculates
a volume of 62.39 cubic meters. the final variable that is needed is the heat
capacity ratio of air. this is a constant that is equal to 1.4. just like that, we have found all of the variables
needed to calculate the energy of the blue shell explosion. after solving the equation, i found that the
blue shell explosion has an energy of 17,617 kj. for comparison that is the same energy as
found in 4 kg of tnt. fans of my channel might remember the united
nations explosion consequence analysis website from my bob-omb episode. 25 with an equivalent of 4 kg of tnt, anyone
within 15 meters of the detonation can expect a ruptured eardrum. anyone within 5.9 meters will have lung damage. most dangerous of all, anyone within 3.5 meters
of the explosion will be killed. thanks to the blue shells, mount wario will
be covered in police tape26 and huge craters will appear will appear in toad harbor. the tsa will not even let me bring hand cream
on to flights, while mario and friend are able to bring the equivalent of 4 kg of tnt
into sunshine airport without raising any red flags. you better hope that you have insurance while
racing. and i am not talking about car insurance.27
life insurance is going to be needed after competing in these cups. and there you have it. blue shells are practically heat seeking missiles
disguised as a fun turtle shell. the shells will kill you outright upon impact,
and anyone within a 3.5 radius around you is likely dead as well. leave it up to nintendo to violate the geneva
convention within a game rated “e for everyone”. next time when you pick up a blue shell in
a mystery box, take a moment to comprehend the shear power you have in your hands. if you’re in first place and receive the
indication that a blue shell is approaching, take those final seconds to make peace with
your maker. i hope those two and a half laps in first
place were worth it because the true winners of mario kart are the survivors, the ones
who race to stay in the middle. but that’s just a theory. a game theory. thanks for watching.♪ i wanna be the very best, so i can pay my biiiills♪ ♪ to catch them is my real test ♪ ♪ until my wallet fiiiills ♪ ♪ i will travel across the land, can't afford a home. ♪ ♪ teach pokémon to understand ♪ ♪ the power that i have to- ♪ pay for every month, the phone bill, the internet, car payments, and then there's the house payment too! stop! no, just stop it. stop. stop the song. i'm just- i'm just sad now... real life sucks... ♫ science blaster by: spellingphailer  ♫ hello internet. welcome to game theory. *sigh* you know what? screw this. i'm sick of paying bills every month. i'm sick of the rat races, and the adpocalypses, it's time to leave behind all that youtube drama and start traveling the land to catch animals and make them fight in eternal bloodsport to the death! ....uh, sorry, i meant to the faint, to the faint. it's muuuuuuuch better. that's right. today, we're talking about our favorite peta-triggering game: pokémon more importantly though, we're talking about how to make dem poké-bucks. poké-dollars? p-poké-skrill? poké-bones! poké-, whatever they are. the p with the two weird lines in it, you know what i mean. we've all had that dream though right? to be teleported to the world of pokémon armed with only a few pokéballs and rise through the ranks to become a pokémon champion we'd make friends. thwart team rocket a couple times. maybe hit on misty a little bit... or brock. if you're into having no eyes... it'd be a great time! or, so we'd like to think. you see, video games tend to gloss over the rest of life that comes along with.......you know, living. you'd still have to eat, sleep, use the bathroom, or whatever the most convenient tree in viridian forest is. which means that all those hard-earned poké-dollars you're ripping out of the pockets of the bug catcher after burning his metapod to a crisp are gonna have to pay dem bills. so it got me thinking. how rich would you be if you became a pokémon champion? what do the earnings of a pokémon master truly look like? that's our question for today. so with that pokémon johto, let's go. game freak the developer behind pokémon doesn't give us basically anything for the day-to-day expenses for a pokemon trainer but they did model a lot of the games geography and culture to places irl. i'm sure gaijin goomba did something on this in some video in the past. hey goomba. give me your notes. thanks. for a guy with no arms you throw surprisingly well. so the regions of kanto, johto, and hoenn are based on the real-life regions of kanto, kansai, and kyushu found in japan. unova is based on new york, kalos is northern france and alola is based off hawaii. we even get hints that this is actually an alternate version of our own world parasect's pokémon entry from firered directly references china, to quote the pokédex, "it scatters toxic spores from the mushroom cap. in china, the spores are used as herbal medicine." this is further shown with the first entry for lieutenant surge in the famed checker that calls him "the lightning american". so with both china and america confirmed as countries in the game it seems safe to assume that we can easily compare the cost of living in pokémon with the cost of living in our own world that means we need to figure out the exchange rates from poké-dollars to real-life skrilla to figure out some sort of yearly income. to get the most accurate conversion, we're actually gonna be starting by converting poké-dollars to japan's currency, the yen. the reason that i wanted to start here is that in the original japanese versions of the games the currency used is, in fact, yen and the symbol used is, uh, this. line-box...line the kanji for yen. the "pokémon dollar" was just created for the english translations of the games. but staying true to its yen roots it kept the similar symbol, the p with two lines through it, as well as the yen's lack of decimals. but that's not all we can even get an insanely accurate conversion rate of real yen to in-game yen using the nice cold refreshing taste of lemonade. could've been you diet coke but you never write me back. come on, coke! i need that sweet brown liquid in my mouth! archer: phrasing? throughout every pokémon game in the series you can find a vending machine or store selling three different drinks: bottled water, soda, and lemonade. the prices are consistent across the entirety of the pokémon universe. from pokémon red/blue all the way to the newest re-release of pokémon ultra sun and ultra moon. what we're most interested in, though, is lemonade or in the japanese versions, mikkusuorre... yeah sounds about right. line-line-line, line-line-swoop, swoop-line-swoop, naruto run, one-legged balance, and stupid "l". you see when translating the game, the drink was actually turned to "lemonade" but the japanese versions translate closer to "mix au lait" which is a french term that translates to "mixed with milk" and wouldn't you know it but you can actually purchase mix au lait at pokémon centers throughout japan in real life! during one of my last trips to japan, i actually visited one of these pokémon centers to sample some of the food. everything there is so super cute! the mix au lait in case you're wondering is a fruity milk drink that reminds me a lot of lassi. if you've ever had that. it's kind of a watery fruity yogurt drink but as you would expect everything at the pokémon center including the mix au lait was super overpriced and totally tourist trap-y. so instead to stay as true to the game as possible i found that there were vending machines actually selling cans of mix au lait for the low, low cost of 150 yen. compare that to the in-game cost for lemonade at 350 poké-dollars, and we're actually able to get the conversion rate of 2.33 poké-dollars to 1 yen. basically what that translates to is one poké-dollar equal to just under half of a real-world yen or to translate that to dollars a 100 poké-dollars is equal to about 39 us cents. so now knowing that, before we calculate how much we earn as a pokémon trainer we should figure out the costs of being a pokémon trainer. thanks to sun and moon we know that the pokémon world functions on the same 24 hour time cycle that our own earth functions on sun shows us that day in the real life is day in game and the same with night so with that in mind i headed over to howlongtobeat.com which is a website that tracks how long to beat games pretty self-explanatory there to find the average time to beat a typical pokémon game that turned out to be 52 hours so if you were to work the average workday of eight hours your journey would take you seven days but seven days to be a fully fledged pokémon master doesn't seem right i mean sure in game you might be able to speed run your way to the top of the poké-charts but if we're looking at this seriously like literally walking between cities battling trainers spending time to train up your pokémon a trainer's journey to the top is gonna last way longer than a week so instead to figure this out, i followed a different trainers journey ash from the anime. sure, we all joke that ash stayed ten years old for twenty years of the show but if you stop and look at the narration and context clues, there is in fact a clear passage of time that gives us a sense of how long ash's kanto journey takes him according to takeshi sciuto creator of the pokémon anime in pallet town the rule is that new trainers begin their journey on april 1st following their tenth birthday in episode 9 the school of hard knocks we actually hear that ash has had two months of experience and two badges "with two months of pokémon experience you got two badges with only three" now fast forward to the episode holiday high jinks which according to official numeration is episode 39 that puts us at christmas of ash's first year as trainer another handful of episodes later, we have "princess vs. princess" which we know is set on march 3rd because it specifically refers to the celebration of hinamatsuri also known as doll's day or girls' day a special day in japan dedicated to celebrating women that trip to cinnabar island for badge number seven takes place during the early summer and shortly thereafter we learned that earning his eighth badge the indigo league is only two months later gary:"the pokémon league only meets once a year, in the exact same pla-" ash:"where is it? when is it? you gotta tell me!" prof. oak: "atop the indigo plateau, exactly two months from today." which places the yearly indigo league championships around july or august in short ash and quite honestly gary who we also see in "showdown at the po-ké corral" that specific episode have their first shot at being a true pokemon master a year and three months after they started their journeys you know now that i've done that i back and calculate how old ash is for the entirety of the series if you want to see that episode sometime in the near future make sure you hit that subscribe button and let me know in the comments below i want ash's age in the next three seconds three two, if that was annoying to you at least it wasn't a mid role according to online cost to raise a child calculators the cost of a single parent raising a ten-year-old in the kanto region of japan for 15 months is gonna be about twelve thousand dollars that translates to a million three hundred twelve thousand one hundred twenty-eight yen or just over three million poké-dollars geez with it costing that much it's no wonder that the parents are sending their kids out into the woods to fight dangerous creatures for the better part of a year anyway, those costs are broken down like you see on screen. but remember this is if they're living at home ash stays in tents most nights and doesn't get himself an education so we can eliminate some of those larger ticket costs let's even eliminate the cost of clothing since the most ash has ever gotten himself is like a new hat that cuts our costs for his 15 month journey in half now sitting at six thousand dollars six hundred fifty six thousand yen, or 1.5 million poké bucks that is a whole bike and a half which doesn't make it sound like that much but seriously, that is a four thousand dollar bike that the shop owner just gives you for free is the best free voucher ever okay so six thousand dollars is the base cost of your journey and of course leaving out the prices of all pokémon and related gear pokeballs revives potions food for the pokémon etc. but then again aston's to get himself distracted on his journey so his quest may take him a little bit longer than your typical trainer it should all balance out the end now it's time to start beating up on some random kids pets and stealing their cash the way to earn money as a pokemon champion is defeating other trainers and taken their money i went through the entirety of pokémon red and blue adding up what you earn from every battle each psychic bug catcher and last out there and then double check that amount via some player guides for the games and if you go undefeated, against every random trainer on your journey you conquer every gym the first time and you send every member of team rocket you would make a total of drumroll please three hundred twenty five thousand four hundred fifty poké dollars which equates to one hundred and fifty six thousand two hundred sixteen yen, or only one thousand four hundred twenty one dollars and fifty seven cents, uh, honestly, i expected it to be much, much, higher when putting this theory together but then i stopped and thought about it and it actually makes a lot of sense just take for instance the elite four which should be the most profitable fights of the game sure earning five thousand poké dollars per fight. sounds great but not so much when you're shelling out three hundred fifty dollars for a fee boss and lemonade the elite four plus the rival battle gets you a total of twenty nine thousand seven hundred ninety nine polka dollars which sounds great until you consider that it's only 85, cans of soda from the vending machine it converts to a whopping 117 dollars and that is the top of the top. we are talking the elite flipping four and don't forget this is just the base adventure if you're doing the pokémon journey a second time i don't think team rocket has the turnaround time to take on the silph company every week plus misty isn't going to take you on again if you already have her badge so if you take out the special events that you most likely wouldn't be able to do again like the silph company takeover in the gyms the journey actually pumps out significantly less one hundred and eighty seven thousand sixty nine poké dollars or seven hundred twenty nine dollars and 57 cents. whoo that is a hefty pay cut literally cut in half and i'm not even including the trainers who aren't gonna fight you again since you beat him, so badly the first time the long story short here is that being a pokémon trainer is the single worst financial? decision in gaming ever. you spend a year out of your life slaving away climbing to the pinnacle of your chosen field living outdoors and getting shocked over and over and over again by pikachu and you end up with a net loss of four thousand five hundred seventy eight dollars and forty three cents. you lose money on your journey even if you get to the end of it, honestly, it's like pursuing a career in theatre where most places make you pay them to work there good times true story. all this is probably why you don't see too many adults out there trying to become pokémon champions they eventually have to support a family and that is simply something that you cannot do as a traveling battler. unless you're a gym leader or part of the elite four there is no way to make a living off of being a pokémon champion chase your dreams just prepare to file for bankruptcy later, but hey that's just a theory a game theory and we didn't even talk about taxes don't even get me started on taxes but now that we've proved that my backup career isn't gonna be backing me up quite as much as i hoped it would i'm gonna have to figure out a new way to save up some serious bucks luckily i know about honey my favorite free browser extension. and the sponsor for this episode is here to save us some cash seriously, they save me money on practically everything that i order online which means my hard-earned poké dollars can buy more when i'm ordering stuff from places like amazon, google buy, or wherever snorlax candy comes from. 9 million people the equivalent of nine out of ten theorists if you go by subscriber numbers on this channel have already downloaded, honey which automatically finds it applies coupon and promo codes from all across the internet on every single purchase that you're making that means that you don't have to do anything or download anything from sketchy websites that you may just end up getting free shipping. or a discount that you didn't know existed on all the things that you are already buying. it's completely free it takes only a few seconds to download and it works immediately. i mean look at this this is a screenshot of me buying over a thousand dollars worth of furniture for the baby room and honey saved me nearly 400 bucks and that's it. there are no strings attached there is that you have to buy it is just literally designed to save you money if you want to give it a try which you should because there's really no reason not to you can download it, for free, in just a couple of seconds right here at joinhoney.com/matpat m-a-t-p-a-t. that's join, honey dot-com slash m-a-t-p-a-t  or you've been on youtube a couple times, you know the link is in the first line of the description you've been here before you can do it and while it might not save you enough to make up for all that money you're losing on the road to becoming a pokémon champion it can certainly make those poké gym dollars go a whole lot further so get on it theorists be the best ♪like no one ever was♪  at saving money online and let honey help you do it*warfpat intro* warfpat: hello internet, welcome to game theory! my name is warfpat and we are joined on the couch today by a very special guest. it's the man you love to tolerate... matpat! let's give him a round of applause, shall we? *applause* *cuts applause* matpat: uhhh... what? warfpat: it's time for your interview. matpat: huh, how about it's time to not have a cringy intro joke at the expense of markiplier personalities. warfpat: *cringy laugh*  i don't think you get to decide what happens here today, matpat. darkpat: yes, we're tired of living in your shadow, matpat. it's time that we take back control! matpat: take back control? since when did my channel have all these cheesy alter egos? warfpat: nothing is as it seems! darkpat: nothing is as it seems! squirrelpat: i am the king of the squirrels! *duuuunn* *duuuunn* hello everybody, my name is matpat and welcome back, to game theory! the show where i'm constantly asking myself the deep existential questions, like what qualifies as a game theory and what qualifies as a film theory. well, that line's about to get a bit blurrier since smack-dab in that juicy gray area is today's episode. an episode where i work to expose the secrets of markiplier. one of youtube's top gamers, top channels and top creators. but when i'm say exposed, i'm not asking you to whip out your tub of popcorn keemstar-style or start the markiplier-is-over party hashtag trending on twitter. i'm not shook or tea spill after all. nope, markiplier is far from over. in fact, he's only just beginning. you see, the secrets i'm exposing today are the pieces of a conspiracy that he's been seeding across multiple channels and dozens of videos for nearly 5 years. an underlying plot woven throughout his and other creators uploads that even his most hardcore of fans probably overlooked. but now, now that he's empowered to make whatever he wants markiplier: "i have the opportunity to make, literally, whatever i want, whenever i want." matpat: the mystery is all starting to crack open, and as evidenced by the recent "go back to sleep", will soon take over the channel. (*gasp*) so what truth am i exposing about markiplier's channel? what lies in the future for markiplier? well loyal theorists, it's simple. he is gonna be revealed as a murderer. murderer. (*gasp*) (*gasp*) murderer. (*gasp*) let me explain. over the course of six years, markiplier has done over 4,000 videos on youtube. people wonder why so many youtubers these days are talking about burnout... anyway, in order to do that much content, you're gonna need to test out a lot of wacky ideas, and mark's videos are certainly no exception. from staring at a banana for five minutes to carving pumpkins, dressed like a little german girl. wait, 3 million views on 5 minutes of him watching a banana? 2 million on him warming up his voice!? what am i doing with my life. why do i spend tens to sometimes hundreds of hours working on a video... but, perhaps, most notably has been him introducing various characters into his let's plays and comedic sketches over the years. some like google-plier, dr e-pliere and bim trimmer appear in a small handful of videos. but then you have others that are more well- known recurring personalities like the pink-moustached "wilford warfstache" (in a cringy voice) and the evil darkiplier. now, here's where things start to get really interesting. unlike most other youtubers who would use these characters as just one-off jokes, it's becoming increasingly clear that mark is using them to create an extended universe, of sorts, and that these alter egos, led by darkiplier, are actually engaged in a plot to overtake mark's channel. a plot that we're in the midst of watching unfold in the non-gameplay focused uploads. it all begins with what seems like a throwaway joke at the end of an upload and mid-2017 titled markiplier tv in which wilfred warfstache is in a pitch meeting with the other alter egos but darkiplier implies that there's something bigger up his black-and-white glitchy sleeve (darkiplier says...) matpat:take back control seems to imply that the alter egos are out to become the main focus of the channel, and if that seems to meta for ya it's not later on at the scene darkiplier acknowledges that the channel exists dark also knows that the only reason he continues to exist is that the audience cares about him it's something that mark openly acknowledges about the characters lore when he's asked about it as he posted on tumblr, quote i should do it in markiplier's voice i'm, ı'm markiplier, ı'm markiplier ten out of ten youtuber impressions ladies and gentlemen. brizzy voices. i am not. in fact darkiplier's lack of focus on the channel in the past urkes him. after the character was put on hiatus for a while he makes a surprise reappearance in the middle of mark's valentine's day special "a date with markiplier" where he reveals his frustrations and this is something that mark openly acknowledges about the character in one of his charity livestreams as he speaks candidly about the creation of this scene. mark: i joked about darkiplier because... it didn't seem like something people wanted to take seriously. darkiplier is a completely separate entity from who i am but he admires what i've accomplished. he's a social manipulator, he is, he is literally 100% manipulative. he leads you into this false sense of security and he wants you to trust him because he wants to take advantage of it. matpat: so basically what we're talking about here is markiplier's legion of doom. a creepy manipulative evil persona, leading a band of alter egos to take down mark and steal his success. but why then is there this emphasis on darkiplier being a separate entity from mark? to understand that we need to look at marks most ambitious project to date "who killed markiplier?" last october (2017) markiplier launched a four-part miniseries titled "who killed markiplier?" along with an ancillary website to house more of the mysteries and pieces of evidence what it first seems like a beautifully shot, goofy, little murder mystery ala clue actually turns into the origin story for mark's most prominence most dangerous alter egos, wilfred warfstache and darkiplier. the story goes thusly when markiplier, yeah just regular old sexy voice, king of fnaf markiplier winds up dead at a poker night with his childhood friends damien and the over-the-top colonel it's up to you and abe the detective to discover the culprit. an answer that you might think is pretty obvious by the end of the four videos (whispers) but isn't really to get a truly complete picture of the solution to this mystery you have to pick apart subtle clues hidden in the videos a room appearing here a female hand there the lilt in a voice the repeated motif of red and blue colors... or honestly you could just watch mark's "i explain everything" video for three hours mark: we're gonna play the video here and we're gonna play it in like half speed and talk about it from top to bottom. long story short: mark, damien and the colonel all grew up together mark falls in love and marries a girl named céline who gets stolen away, not in a romantic way, by jumanji reject over there. mark, heartbroken, hatches a plot for revenge in which he gets the friends together for a poker night then plans to fake his death, for lack of a simple explanation, and framed the colonel for his murder. oh and uhm the house is controlled by an evil entity in charge of a parallel plane of existence that can bring people back to life. you know just a minor detail there in the story. in the end the revenge plot works. just not in the way he expects. mark's soul steals damien's body; the colonel goes insane after watching his friends die and then come back to life and your body yes you, the character that you play in this whole story, your body ends up getting possessed by the red spirit of céline, the blue spirit of damien and a little sprinkling in of evil house entity for flavor. the colonel, convinced that death is now meaningless, goes on to become the insane killer/news reporter wilford warfstache. you can tell because his red suspenders fade to pink as they age. and your characters unique mix of souls becomes darkiplier, as evidenced by the female hand grabbing the cane and the red and blue split motif that comes with darkiplier appearences that directly mirrors the blue soul of damien and the red soul of céline. oh and uh, you, you as the person who's been watching this whole time, well... you're left behind as irrelevant, helplessly watching darkiplier as he walks away with your body. no, here's why all this is important: it establishes an internal lore with the channel. mark isn't what he seems. markiplier by being a key figure in all these narratives is himself a character just like wilfred or darkiplier is. a character who devised a plot to kill someone, possess their body and continue on with their life which includes a life creating a successful youtube channel that's how darkiplier can say things like: that clip from "a date with markiplier" is happening after the events of "who killed markiplier?" we know this, 1. because dark exists in the first place and 2. because of this line: which is a direct reference to this moment from "who killed markiplier?" what this means is that any video at any time on the markiplier channel can be mark in character in fact, they could all be mark in this character. its cannon to the lore of this mark v dark storyline that's he's created and if we're being honest mark's character in this fictional metaverse quite frankly a jerk. mark: welcome, welcome one and all. my name is markiplier. now this evening, it's not all about the poker, it's not all about me. it's about you. matpat: sure, he went through this personal heartache at the hands of the colonel but he went on to steal the body of his friend and look at this! we see it in the meta ending of "a date with markiplier" i used to be somebody, maybe not something good, but i was somebody who worked on great projects! now we are gonna on this bull- obviously this isn't the markiplier that we know and love who's creating this series for us to watch. adding to that we know that this is an older mark who's been in a long-term committed relationship because of this line mark: any calls?! kathryn: your kids called. mark: i don't care, tell me when my agent calls me. it's mark inside damian's body, but it goes beyond just the scripted narrative sketches. listen to this from one of his normal vlogs: would mark "the person" ever call his work bad? or be this arrogant on camera, or is this mark the character? here are some other good quotes from that particular vlog: mark: i used to be someone that wanted to be someone else. the... soul behind the channel and so mark took the backseat. do you know what i mean? matpat: even stuff like this. mark: i haven't been honest. i haven't been open! matpat: mark, you talk openly to the audience all the time! in livestreams, vlogs, whatever! unless of course when you say you're not being honest you really mean that you're not being honest about who you really are. and if you think i'm just stretching out this fourth wall breaking theory on mark's channel i'm not. the characters have been breaking out and crossing over into the nonskid video special special thanks to reddit user fnaftheorist13 who alerted us to this one but take a look at mark's playthrough of doki doki literature club and you see how darkiplier's plan is in full effect here each video has a poem written in the description box by a different character not yuri or monica and the rest of the club like you would expect but by wilfred, darkiplier and some other characters from "who killed markiplier?" the first poem is clearly by wilford since the closing line is: which is the same mentality as wilford's final lines of: wilford: why don't we have a little fun? matpat: the opening line of the poem also mentions: and wouldn't you know it but 7 months after this video was posted we get ourselves "wilford 'motherloving' warfstache a continuation of wilford's story post "who killed markiplier?" and what do we have him in an afro this is elaborate stuff that is spanning years on this channel episode four's poem comes from darkiplier dimension of thrones and kings directly connects to the way he speaks in darkiplier vs antisepticeye and the most important one is reserved for markiplier himself, in episode five's description it's about mark, and how in the story he intentionally broke the colonel's mind and then shook damien's soul free from his body to steal it and how he's eventually going to kill someone on the channel. so why does any of this matter? well first we just confirmed that a top youtuber is a murderer. he's kind of like ennard. he scooped the soul out of someone else's body and spaghetti roboted his soul into it. and this revelation is something that mark can canonically roll out on any video at any time. you'll never actually be sure which mark is speaking to you: actual mark or character mark? it's incredibly meta, but even more importantly it gives you a preview as to the direction his channel is headed. clearly there is this literal legion of doom fighting for control over mark's channel, and mark is now building out their backstory. "wilford 'motherloving' warfstache" was a continuation of the "who killed markiplier?" storyline. where we see the colonel assume his new identity as wilfred and start developing his signature pink mustache and now with "go back to sleep" teasing a return of darkiplier it looks like the alter egos are truly making their move to take back control over the channel. we even see the returning motif of a retro tv just like in markiplier tv. even the line: it's a reference to the channel how mark made it at a time when he was at his lowest of lows: family tragedy, broken relationship, medical trouble, jobless, but this time based on the creepy imagery it looks like it might be telling the story of céline. notice the female figure floating there in the abandoned cabin in the woods. could it be where the colonel kidnapped céline to? we'll have to wait and see. but lastly and most importantly this matters because this is the cool stuff that is just so exciting to see on youtube. talented visionaries getting to make the stuff that they wouldn't be allowed to make anywhere else. a choose your own adventure dating series; a clue mystery with dark horror themes; a brain bending arg that ties it all together and blurs the lines between reality and fiction... that's what i've always loved most about youtube. the creative freedom that can't be found anywhere else and i hope that other creators are able to follow mark's example and that the platform rewards that creativity but hey, that's just a theory, a - who even cares at this point of - theory? bye bye!dear nintendo, hi! it's me! austin! and since i always drag these intros on and people complain about it. we're gonna try something new! how overpowered and cataclysmically dangerous is the home run bat in super smash brothers boom! simple premise, simple math, terrifying conclusions. i am nailing it today. let's do this! super smash brothers is a franchise that started in 1999 with super smash brothers 64 and it's nintendo's brawley answer to mortal kombat and killer instinct where you finally get to settle the playground debates about who would win in a no-holds-barred smackdown between samus aran, captain falcon and pikachu. it's - it was pikachu in 1999 it was it was always pikachu. this game rocked and it was easily one of the best games on the nintendo 64 and other than goldeneye, it was the only ones that i remember super fondly after all these years. get out of my way, natalya! gaahhh! okay, i guess it's the only one i remember fondly anymore anyway the home run bat was introduced in this game and it has been a staple ever since it's the blue shell of super smash brothers which, yes, i know may be confusing since there's an actual blue shell in super smash brothers but i mean, come on, just let me have this one. okay? the home run bat is a potentially game ending super weapon that, when swung correctly, can hit a character so hard they uncontrollably fly off the screen and die no matter how much damage has been done to them so naturally i needed to figure out how disastrous this beast is so! let's. dig. into it. the first question i have to answer is: is it actually that dangerous at all? this may seem confusing to some of you who are casual fans of super smash brothers or heck aren't fans at all but surprisingly there is lore for this game. in fact to prepare for this episode i actually watched matt's episode on the topic and as a result i was *sobbing* totally fine i promise! but here's the short version for you: super smash brothers isn't actually a bunch of nintendo characters duking it out in real life this is actually, instead, all things that are happening inside the imagination of a kid playing with nintendo toys in his room this is shown literally in the intro of the first super smash brothers and then little snippets here and there as the games progress and the child ages into a man, which immediately creates a problem of scale how big even are these miniatures? because if he's literally throwing these things around as they get hit with imaginary bats and what we see on screen is just his imagination then it's entirely possible that the bat isn't all that scary at all now, using an impressive combination of deductive reasoning, surveying techniques, pulling my hair out, angle measurements, the exact dimensions of the nintendo 64, geometry, astrophysics and losing my f**king mind! i was able to figure out the size of the mario figurine in super smash  brothers melee and it was not easy and, as i'll explain in a minute, ultimately irrelevant but just so you know, it was a little over three and a half inches but then i realized that one of you annoying, adorable little punks in the comments will be like "but what about the home run contest that has lengths measured in feet?" what you know is obnoxious! but fine! i'll dispel your little objection, your majesties. the home run contest was introduced in super smash brothers melee and basically you smack a sandbag with your bat or if you're a power gamer you find a sneaky workaround using ganon and it flies off and you get points. simple, right? so all i got to do to dispel this problem is hop into a contest with mario, okay measure his height in pixels and use that to determine how tall the sandbag should be according to canon air quotes "real world" proportions. given a canon mario height of 1.55 meters this means that our sandbag should, in theory, be 2 meters and 9 centimeters, or just under 7 feet and if i smack this bad boy and use the feet traveled versus the notches on the ground i can determine that each one of these notches is about 3.26 feet long - basically a meter and if the bag is about 2 notches long, it means that the bag is... 6 and a half feet. wait a min- holy crap 6.53 feet. that's practically no different from the mario measurements i mean if we take a notch to be exactly a meter since 3.26 feet is just .02 feet shy of being a full meter that means that the difference is even smaller than that, and the sandbag is exactly 2 meters high in the world which means our margin for error from pixel measurements is 5%, which is a lot in a statistics class but it's practically zero in a world of pixel measurements when perspectives can be really often imprecise why is it such a big deal that mario's canon height and the dimensions of the world are consistent? because well for one it shows that nintendo has known mario's cannon height all the way back in 2001 and was making core design choices around it. good job nintendo, but even more important for this video it means that we don't judge the physics on what we see on screen as little toys flying around because while that's what's happening in the real world in the constrained universe of super smash brothers inside this boy's imagination things are following the laws of physics to scale which is good because it makes the math awesome instead of boring and it is bad because i spent tel franken days figuring out how big one of these miniatures alright this bat let's do this. got a calculate how powerful this thing is and thankfully i have to that's right to metrics figured out what is obviously mario's height but way more importantly is mario's mass? eighty nine point nine three seven kilograms, which if you're curious i figured out in this episode about how mario flies science is about standardizing as much as you possibly can and mario is one of our most reliable standards and today we're gonna be focusing on these two things and one more his nose i don't make sense in a second physics in super smash brothers is calculated every frame unless you're in slow motion in which case they're calculated based on the frame rate the game would be at not really that important in order to figure out how fast our character is moving and how much force is needed we need to do some strict measurements which is where the all-important nose comes from when struck with the bat mario freezes for a bit and enters this folded position when he starts to move in order to figure out how fast he moves we have to measure this distance and in order to be the most accurate we have to use the pythagorean theorem but before that we need two reliable points to measure from which is when i noticed his nose. his nose is just perfect, and you can make a perfect x by lining up the bottom and the top of his nose that can be a perfect point both from position a and position b, then we can draw a right angle and use the pythagorean theorem which says that this length here squared is equal to this side squared plus this side squared rearrange this into this use mario's height as a reference and bada-bing bada-boom we have an 89 kilogram mario flying off at a whopping 33 meters per seconds or almost 75 miles per hour and accelerating at a rate of over 200 meters per second or over 20 g's. oh crap, but it gets worse because while you could survive these forces if you're in say a car the forces aren't being delivered by a huge car they're being delivered by a freaking baseball bat that measures approximately 1.2 meters high and has a striking surface of 46 point nine centimeters by 16 centimeters which gives it an area of point zero seven six square meters and why am i telling you this because it would take approximately 18,000 37 newtons or approximately the amount of force output by a car engine to launch you off at that speed and when you spread that force out across an area you get what's called pressure nunis per square meter pressure is a big freakin deal it's why stepping on a single nail can send you to the hospital but most people could lay on a bed of nails no problem, because a force of your body and gravity which is your weight is spread out simultaneously across many points that together amount to a much wider surface area which greatly reduces the pressure your body experiences from an individual needle so while if you were in a car experiencing this force all over your body, you'd probably be fine although you'd probably throw up because you know 20 g's but know this thing right here is going right into mario's gut, that means broken bones ruptured internal organs shattered nerves internal bleeding. this dude is freaking toast good thing he responds but what but but but but it gets much much worse than this this is just the tip of the iceberg the previous math is for mario getting smacked at 0% damage damage and super smash brothers works differently than it does in most fighting games the more damage that's done to you the more you get knocked back by attacks which means someone with 50% damage flies? faster than someone with 0% and so on so naturally i calculated how fast someone hit with the bat at 200% damage would fly 87 m/s. are almost 200 miles per hour nice, but what about more? i need more. what about maximum damage oh children this is when it gets out of control when hit with the homerun bat at 999 percent damage the highest number in the game mario are 89 kilogram mario becomes a freaking ballistic missile rocketing off at 272 meters per second over six hundred and nine miles per hour the dude is barely onscreen for enough frames to measure where's his nose? i can't find his frickin nose who's got your nose little buddy at this speed mario would be experiencing sixteen thousand three hundred and thirty eight meters per second squared of acceleration or over six tina or over 1,600 g's this guy this freaking guy is a human baseball forget broken bones and shattered blood vessels this guy would be split in two paces as he flew through the air like a human shotgun shell didn't hit with his baseball bat would be like getting hit with a 25 millimeter anti-aircraft shell and then there's a person swinging the bat remember newton's third law of motion says exactly x y oney contrarian center at a column s a reaction mcu a corporal do orem acciones insane mutual semper sa oculus at impart des country eras to region what no latin scholars in here fine to every action there is always oppose an equal reaction or the mutual actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal and directed to contrary parts this means that the person swinging the bat is just as screwed as the same level energy travels down the length of the bat into their hands shattering every bone it comes into contact with the arms down the muscles dissipating as it goes probably not killing them, but definitely dislocating both shoulders causing severe bruising infection risk from internal bone damage and micro fractures and either snapped tendons and muscles or dislocated hips pick your poison. they both suck so yeah, this thing makes no freaking sense i guess that means that when you respond you're not actually the same character you are dead someone just switched on a cloning machine and sent down a new pile of meat for the flight super just never say this game is less violent de mortal kombat it's got a death bat and don't think i've forgotten about the hammer either they may be cartoon violence but it's cartoon violence that would destroy you and everything you love in real life you know, what was that vidcon people kept asking me what i do on youtube yeah, yeah this here is what i do, but i realized something there's a reason why i do this it's not it's not just fun to tear things apart using numbers although it is but it's because i find research and math fun i love it. and i think in school, especially public schools we get these tools these amazing tools that can be used to answer amazing questions from how deadly with the homerun bat be in real life to how do we send scientists to the moon math? and science are tools to answer questions i think that's something that's lost a lot in the classroom when you're forced to work on problems over know over again don't even get me started on word problems. if a train is moving less than 50 miles per hour and another train is moving east at 20 miles per hour. the track is 300 miles long. how long until they ball asleep from boredom dear lord word problems should be the best part of math, but they're the worst mario's math is fun. when you're killing in tendo characters class dismissed sincerely, austin oh, yeah, and don't forget to subscribe to the game carrots right here and if you're already subscribed, it's a little meltdown here get notifications. what happens do it to myself? hmmmatpat has gone crazy. he has us running the theory machine 24/7. he says he needs to "appease the youtube algorithm" to save us all. whatever that means... the theory machine was never meant to sustain this kind of load. things are bound to go wrong. i heard the machine said that han and leia were rey's parents. i tell ya, if we have one more researcher turned into an ink monster for a "science!" video, i'm outta here! hello, internet! welcome to game theory, where today, it's getting a little sketchy. (pun entirely intended!) that's right! it's time to revisit the world of bendy and the ink machine. recently, chapter four - the penultimate episode of this five-part series - came out and hoo-hoo boy! - what a difference a few months make. out went the exhausting series of fetch quests from chapter three, and in came stealth, minigames, actual gameplay, a barbecue-- "what the heck is this?" --and not just one, but two boss battles. in fact, the game had us seeing double everywhere. double alice, that is. after proving herself to be a little devilish in chapter three - (stephanie): my god! (matpat): holy balls! - chapter four ends with alice angel finally getting her comeuppance at the hands of... alice a-angel. ( matpat): what?! (matpat): excuse- hih- heh- huh- 'sc- 'sc- 'scuse me what? great question, me from the past. that's exactly what i aim to answer today. now obviously, the reveal of a second alice angel accompanied by a mecha-boris was a huge twist that no one saw coming. but it was also the clue that we needed to figure this whole thing out. because, for all the time that we online have spent theorizing about bendy, we've also been ignoring the other title character here. the ink machine. specifically, how that ink machine works. and between the twist ending of chapter four, some hidden files in the game, and, most importantly of all, changes to the first three chapters now that they've been remastered, we'll finally be able to piece together what's really going on in this game, and the surprise reveals that will bring chapter five to a close. let's start at the end. the shocking reveal of alice croft and mecha boris. watch everyone on youtube play-through this chapter, and we're all shook by this moment. (what?!) (what!?) (boris!) (and the real alice angel. hold on!) but in retrospect, we shouldn't have been. two alice angels shouldn't have been so surprising. we've literally been walking through halls of dismembered borises - uh, bori? - for months now. i mean, the first big reveal way back in chapter one is a dead boris. a big moment of chapter three is dedicated to escort missioning of boris through a swamp of dead bori, and yet, all of a sudden, we're like, "whoa, there are two alices? how is that possible?" what this clearly confirms for us is that the ink machine is able to produce the same character multiple times. and as alice mentions in chapter three, not only is the machine producing multiples of the same character, but it also does it at varying levels of quality. so now, let's take a closer look at our two alices to see what we can learn. chapter three's alice clearly has something wrong with her. her face is half-melted off; she talks with some kind of weird echoey voice - oh yeah -
the homicidal rage. this alice refers to herself as susie, meaning that she - at one point - was susie campbell, alice angel's original voice actress. spoiler alert, susie. they don't. unless, of course, your dream was getting run through the chest by a kill la kill style scissor blade. now let's look at our new alice. if you look in the game files, chapter four's angel is referred to as allison... angel. this name is likely a reference to allison pendle, the voice actress who took over for susie campbell. this, honestly, goes a long way to confirm our last bendy theory. that joey drew was using the ink machine to transform employees into the characters. but not only that - the fact that the jealous rage fueled susie became the twisted form of alice seems to imply that good-hearted people have the potential to become perfect versions of the characters they most relate to, while those with impure souls become imperfect copies. it's almost like the ink machine is passing judgment on those who touch the ink. susie's biggest fear was being unremarkable and forgotten. so the machine, like some sort of dripping sepia-toned sorting hat, transformed her into something truly monstrous: a perversion of the very character that she loved. and that's not all that we learned from susie. we also learned that a person can go through the machine multiple times and get different results. wriggling, shapeless slug? it sounds like her first time through, she was selected to be a searcher. like the ink people and ink enemies that we encounter throughout the game. because susie initially became one of these ink creatures, it's likely that these kinds of creatures are the ink machine standard output for its basic employees. much rarer, however, is the machine turning employees into the biggest stars of the joey drew universe: bendy, boris, and alice. in short, the ink machine is all about a cycle of reincarnation, and it's using humans as ink. all these instances of "he will set us free" written on the walls are the searchers literally searching for an escape - an escape from this endless cycle of death and rebirth. and someone or something keeps putting them back through this cycle. bendy! and that's exactly what we see the ink demon doing. gathering ink monsters like we see him do the projectionist in chapter four and sending them back into the ink supply to be spat out again. why? because everyone, as well as bendy himself, i would suspect, believes that a pure-hearted, perfect bendy output would be the one who'll be able to end this cycle and finally set all of these trapped people free. this idea of kind-hearted employees transforming into perfect versions of characters is further supported by mecha boris. like allison angel, "cy-boris" isn't given a name in the main gameplay of the chapter. but if you dig around in the game files again, you'll find that this character is actually named tom. a reference to thomas connor, the disgruntled ink machine maintenance employee. and if you're saying to yourself, "who?" come on, you guys remember tom, right? you know. tom, the conman, the tom-ster. but in all seriousness, you really had no reason to take notice of this guy. before chapter four, thomas connor was one of those side characters who had no real purpose in the story. he had one out-of-nowhere audio log from chapter three that didn't reveal any new information. this, in turn, led me to conclude in my last bendy theory that wally franks was going to be revealed as boris in chapter four because "throughout the chapters, we've seen how every other major character from the audio log has been transformed into an ink monster." "so, unless a new monster is introduced in chapter four, which is pretty late in the game story to be introducing new characters, that leaves us with only one option. wally franks is boris." well, wouldn't you know it, but with the release of chapter four came a bunch of updates to chapters one through three. the new remastered edition! which, if you're a theorist like me, reads instead as the retcon edition. it's moments like this that are the most telling for me as i hunt for clues, because as creators go through the process of telling their story, they tend to have a better sense of where they're headed and how they actually want to tell that story as they get closer to the finish line. and so they go back and tweak a few things and add a few things to better telegraph where they're headed. and true to form, thomas connor suddenly became a much more prominent character, with an audio log and ink output schedule being added into chapter one and a joint conversation with the janitor wally franks added into chapter three. which begs the question of "why?" my last theory concluded that wally franks had to be boris. he's one of the most prominent characters in the game, he has a connection with the ink machine as evidenced by the blueprints, and themeatly has made it clear on twitter that despite saying time and time again that he was - (wally franks:) outta here! he never actually made it! wally never got out of joey drew studios. we also know, based on the items you collect in chapter one for the summoning ritual of the ink machine, that he's now the only character left at this point. joey drew has his book; sammy is the record; thomas connor is now established with the wrench; alice is the stuffed toy based on her chapter taking place in the toy workshop; our character henry is the artist, so he's represented by the ink; which leaves the last item as the ink machine's gear. that's wally franks! he's an essential character to the story, appearing in every chapter, and yet the creator of the game decided to retcon thomas into a bigger role, so that he could become boris, despite the fact that all the signs were pointing to wally franks becoming boris. this tells me one thing. that themeatly has other plans for wally and has had other plans for wally the entire time. it tells me that wally franks is gonna be revealed to be the bendy monster. i know. i know. it seems like it should be joey drew. there is tons of evidence for that. but it's starting to feel like that's more and more of a misdirect by themeatly. i mean, think about what we've learned about joey drew up to this point. he's selfish. he steals. he's a liar. he's not the type of person to test the ink machine on himself, which is why he gives people like susie a special "opportunity", using the ink to turn her into alice - as a test case. but our evidence isn't just a psychological analysis of the character. the limping, twisted-footed bendy that i talked about in the last theory that i thought connected with this shot of a wheelchair from chapter one? it appears to be gone in the newest chapter! and in the remasters, as confirmed by these animated models released by the game's official team. and if that wasn't enough, if nothing else, we know that joey drew sent that note from the beginning of the game. unless he sent it right before he transformed himself, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense that a bendy monster looking like that would have the best penmanship. now, look at another change that happened in the remasters. it used to be that bendy was summoned by pentagrams on the ground. but if you play through again, you'll notice that they're just random shapes in a circle. pentagrams come with evil, satanic connotations. this change tells me that bendy is no longer meant to be purely a villain. but if he's wally franks, a man who was - against his will - thrown into the ink and transformed, this suddenly makes sense. we also know, based on that twitter post i mentioned earlier, that wally doesn't escape from joey drew studios. so he has to be someone in the game and we have yet to meet him with just one chapter left. there's only so many people he could possibly be. now look at his audio log from chapter four. this reveals to us that he's disgruntled and vengeful to his fellow employees. a trait which, we know from susie as "twisted alice", would turn him into an imperfect ink creature, like the imperfect ink demon bendy. the clip also reinforces the idea that wally cleans up the messes of everyone else. what do we see bendy do with the projectionist in chapter four? cleans up his mess by dragging his body away. in fact, if i'm right in saying that bendy is constantly throwing people back into the ink machine in the hopes of producing a perfect bendy, well, that's what he's doing in the context of this entire plot. he's trying to clean up after the mess joey drew created. but, regardless of whether evil bendy is joey drew or wally franks, one thing i can promise you is that just like there's an evil alice angel and a good one, there is a perfect bendy to balance out the ink demon. and dear viewers, i'm here to tell you that perfect bendy is you! that's right! you, henry the protagonist, are gonna be the prophesized bendy that saves joey drew studios and all its employees from their cycle of rebirth. here's how i see the whole thing playing out. first, we know that joey and henry started this business together, and we know that henry created one of the characters. based on the fact that his desk has what appears to be an early version of bendy with a no over top, it seems pretty clear that he created bendy but got rejected by joey. eventually, henry leaves the company. however, we know that joey drew steals characters, so he stole and tweaked the design of bendy, leading to huge amounts of success, and even its own theme park. which begs the question then, "what would lead susie to say this?" why would joey, despite all this success, be poor? well, it's because of henry. we know that henry did something to the studio, or to these characters based on this line in chapter three. i'm thinking henry sued the company for stealing his character or perhaps, based on the poison ink that he's represented by in that opening ritual, is the one who created and sent the ink machine in the first place. all in the name of sabotaging the man who stole his character. !t was his oc - do not steal, but then someone did! joey drew stole his oc, and we, online, know that that's unforgivable. so joey invited him back thirty years later, to see the ruins of their business, forcing henry to face what he did. joey approaches henry, forces him into the ink, and everything seems lost. but then, since the ink machine clearly judges people, henry's pure love of these characters will be the thing that ultimately allows him to emerge as perfect bendy, overcome joey drew, destroy the ink machine, and set everyone else free. the end. well, at least until five chapters at bendy's 2. but hey, that's just a theory - a game theory! thanks for watching. if you want more bendy action, then check out my friends over at the leaderboard, as they break down all the secret easter eggs from chapter four. like, did you realize that the connections between bendyland and disneyland actually go a lot deeper than you might think? if you head on over, do me a favor - let him know in the comments that matpat sent ya. or if you want to see how this theory got put together, click the box to the right to check out the live stream where we actually break down all the little changes and details from chapters one through three, and describe a little bit of what it's like to be a theorist, looking at all those retcons. now, if you'll excuse me, next week - something long overdue.hi, i'm masahiro sakurai. today i'd like to introduce you to the new super smash brothers game for the nintendo switch. many fighters have appeared in the series. i'm sure you're all eager to find out who will be joining the roster this time. please, take a look. freddy fazbear mangle puppet and nightmarionne from fnaf 4 withered chica filthy frank: "just stop!" pirates of the caribbean (foxy) (furry and lol edition) small nugget boy anime girl number one villlain bee waluigi (omg!!!!!!!!!) nyoom every one is here!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   (game theory theme song begins) bing bing boong bong bang hello internet, welcome to game theory, the william afton of youtube. william afton: "i always come back." so here's something crazy - you know how every fnaf game tends to have 5 main nights, a bonus 6th night that gives you more lore hints, and then a challenge mode 7th night where you customize all the animatronics? well, look at the games. we have five main games bearing the five nights title. a bonus 6th game, that was mostly for lore, and now a 7th stand alone release where you customize the animatronics. the game releases directly mirror the gameplay! either scott is a mad genius, or i'm thinking about things way too hard. (mr. hippo's voice) "you try to read into every little thing, and find meaning in everything anyone says you'll just drive yourself crazy" i heard you last time mr. hippo! but guess what, you barney reject?! reading into every little thing is the only way to have this series make any sort of sense whatsoever. case in point: today's episode. with the final novel out, and ultimate custom night picked to shreds, it finally feels like the story of fnaf is at its end. or, at least the afton story line is at its end. the series will probably come back to tell another story in the same universe later i mean, it's exactly what scott did with fnaf 4. the "final chapter"... of the original fnaf story. i see what you did there scotty. it's the final chapter of the "original story" but oh no friends he wasn't done, he even ended that teaser with a question mark if you brighten that screen up enough. man, scott! you've really wanted to leave the door open for more games in this series didn't ya? you were milking it more than i was. or, i guess we're both milk maids at the teat of freddy fazcow. (gross) anyway, as they say in fnaf world "the pieces are in place for us" so it's time to take one final step back and put every single one of those pieces together into this: my final timeline for the final fnaf game. now, uh let me save you some work if you brighten the image you see on screen right now. you'll see that there's a question mark there since y'know.. (springpat) "i always come back.." and if he comes back, well i gotta pull myself a samurai freddy and pursue the anime fox of truth-- wherever it may lead. let's do this! now, putting together a final timeline of events for this series is incredibly challenging, and requires us covering a lot of really minute details from literally every element the series has ever released. this is my longest, most involved theory in 7 years. covering every square inch of the series so fair warning that this episode is not for the faint of heart. it is extreme. a way for me to simultaneously flex my knowledge of the minutiea of this series all while trying to come up with a satisfactory answer to pretty much every question it has ever thrown our way. and of course, there are some questions that don't have clean answers. which i'll be calling out for you as i go. so for those of you who want to take the challenge and attempt a timeline of your own let me first explain my thought process. as i was writing this episode, there are three hard and fast rules that i applied first, it's important to note that i put greater emphasis on information that was released more recently in the series while, yes, everything in the series is important, by fnaf 4 and even more so sister location we can assume that scott had a complete picture of the story in his mind. it's easy to forget that fnaf 1 was gonna be scott's final game after years of trying to be a game designer and hitting dead ends. do you really think that he imagined a lore so deep that it would cover eight games, five books, and countless teasers? that he predicted his story would be so massively popular that it would involve undead purple people way back when we we're all just making memes about foxy 'swiggity swooty comin for that booty '! probably not. so it's safe to assume that the newest information we're getting in the games is the most accurate in pointing to the final story he's looking to tell. so that's rule number one. rule number two - adhering to key dates and events. now, there isn't much that's certain in this story. which means that the things we do know must serve as fixed points that the other details fit around. we know for a fact from fnaf 1 phone calls that the animatronics are allowed to walk around freely until the bite of '87. we know from fnaf 3 calls that the golden spring-lock suits are eventually retired to a back room after a tragedy at a sister location: the fnaf 4 bite. which itself takes place in 1983. fnaf 3 also tells us that at some point william afton tries to dismantle the robots whose spirits rebel, causing him to become springtrap eventually getting himself sealed up behind a wall until the workers at fazbear's fright discover his body and set him loose again. details like those have to be our guide posts if we have any hopes of getting anywhere in the story. and lastly, rule number 3. realizing that this isn't just a simple linear timeline. it's clearly established in the games that multiple fazbear locations exist at the same time. and that the events in one affect what happens in other locations. for proof, just look at phone guy in fnaf 3. uh, welcome to your new career as a performer slash entertainer for freddy fazbear's pizza. right now, we have two specially designed suits that double as both animatronics and suits. after learning of an unfortunate incident at the sister location, involving multiple and simultaneous spring lock failures, the company has deemed the suits temporarily unfit for employees. this not only tells us at the first that the first freddy fazbear's pizza had two golden suits, but also that the first freddy's was open at the same time as the fnaf 4 freddy's. the spring lock failure in the fnaf 4 location prompted the yellow suits to be retired in the fnaf 1 location. in short, a lot of these events overlap. restaurants often stay open for years beyond what we see in the games. and everything weaves together in a way that's much more complicated than simply saying: "this restaurant opened, kids died, it closed." "the next one opened! kids died again, it closed." in all honesty, i suppose you could simplify it to that level but we're not going to. i am holding myself to a higher standard. a... slightly higher standard. but a higher standard none the less! so with those three logical rules in place let's get analyzing to begin, we have to identify who william's first victim was. now i've
covered fnaf a lot, but in all my theories one thing has remained
consistent since fnaf 2 -- that the puppet was first -- henry's daughter -- she is the
character who gives life to all the other animatronics. so it would just make
sense for her to be victim numero uno but outside of that it's always been
just an assumption. and now that we've seen the event actually take place in
the games i think i've been wrong about it this
entire time. think about it. we have proof that william kills henry's daughter in
fnaf 6, but as i talked about in a previous theory we see that later that
night, afton goes to a place called junior's, where he's turned away at the
door. now why would scott show us this? fnaf 6 was all about tying up loose ends. he's not just going to throw in a random bar to establish that the mustard man is an alcoholic or anything. he's doing it to
establish a timeline. the only time we hear of anyone being
turned away from any building for any reason in this series is in fnaf 2. from what i understand, the building is on lockdown. no one is allowed in or out, y'know, especially concerning any... previous employees. and the name junior's make sense... in scott's classic way of giving us clues that are
meant to clarify things but really just end up confusing all of us. remember fnaf 2's location is the grand reopening -- a second freddy fazbear's pizzeria
location -- a junior location if you will and lastly to further solidify the
puppet coming later in the timeline, remember why freddy's closed in the
first place. it wasn't due to murders or animatronics going haywire. according to
the fnaf 1 newspapers, people just got weirded out by a place where kids
disappeared. quote. after a long struggle to stay in business after the tragedy that took place there many years ago, freddy fazbear's pizza has announced that it will close by year's end. end quote. this all means that the missing
children's incident, where five kids go missing at a freddy fazbear's pizza, must
be the first event of the timeline. william afton uses the spring bonnie
suit to lure five kids to the back, employees-only safe rooms that we hear
about in fnaf3, hiding their dead bodies in the animatronic suits. we can
even figure out the order of who was killed when based on clues hidden in
ultimate custom night. we know with 100% certainty that chica was
first, based on one of her death lines chica: "i was the first. i have seen everything." that's about as explicit as you get with
these games. from a storytelling standpoint, i hate that chica is first,
because it really should have been golden freddy, so he could be the first
spirit killed and the final spirit to haunt afton in custom night, but whatever. chica, a.k.a suzie, is death number 1. she's lured away by afton telling her that her dog died. we see it in fnaf 6's fruity maze. we also read about it in the fourth
closet. quote. beside them was the little girl with blond curls... i heard daddy say he was hit by a car. but i knew it wasn't true. bonnie told me it wasn't true; he said that he had found my puppy. and did he take you to your puppy? he took me, but i don't remember... my name's susie we even hear about it in the chica anime cut-scenes from custom
night. chica: i told him that someone ran over his dog in front of my house geez scott! i know we were all looking for answers, but man! you beat that one over the head
didn't ya? not that i'm complaining, but that one
was a bit overly obvious, and then all the other ones are just so damn obscure. just gotta find a better balance here, man. from there we know that four other kids get taken and stuffed into suits. we know
their names based on the gravestones at the end of fnaf 6: gabriel, fritz, jeremy,
and... grass. hey who are we to judge what other people name their kids? probably some celebrities' kid. (matpat's posh celebrity voice) oh you must meet my children. this is apple, audio science, and grass. all joking aside though, loyal theorists will remember this last grave
was giving me a lot of trouble during a past theory. you see, this book -- the fnaf survival log book -- holds a ton of reveals about the franchise, but they're all
hidden in code. some i was able to deduce, some left me stumped, but a few hours
after releasing my video covering the book, the mystery was solved by the
brilliant deduction of game theorist subreddit user dpowerful1. dpowerful1 used the numbers that i had found: 52, 39, 15, 7, 2, 10, 11, 8, and 11, and put them not into an alphabet grid for ciphers
like i'd been doing, and like the book was clearly hinting towards, but instead put them into the word search of all places. using the numbers as coordinates
in the word search you could spell the name cassidy, a name that must belong to golden  freddy based on the repeated use of golden freddy's signature line of
it's me throughout the book, the gravestone imagery which lines up with the fifth mystery gravestone at the end of fnaf 6, and a mention of cassidy in the final fnaf novel the fourth closet. and that would be more than enough proof, but it's not all. in the novel cassidy is
described as a girl with black hair, and what do we see in the log book? the
puppet giving cake to a little girl with black hair. the only human child in the
log book, no less, and it's happening on a page talking about your happiest day -- a
direct reference to the happiest day minigame from fnaf 3 where the
puppet gives cake to golden freddy in an effort to release its soul. you can even
hear a girlish laugh every time golden freddy is summoned way back in fnaf
1. (little girl laughing) literally everything about this reveal lines up. everything of course
except for the pronoun of "he" being used to talk about "the one you should not
have killed" throughout custom night, which, as we established last episode, is referring to golden freddy, but consider this: golden freddy is a male character. he's
freddy fazbear. he's fredbear, regardless of the spirit that possesses it, so the
gender confusion works here. scott even used that to his advantage in the casting call, where he was specifically looking for auditions where quote (matpat reads screen) fnaf -- teaching kids that gender is fluid... but only if you spend four years picking apart its obscure lore. yeah, by the way, fnaf is 4 years old this august. it's crazy right? wow i've been doing this for
a long time. the last thing to say about golden freddy is proving that he gets possessed here. at the first freddy fazbear's pizza location, rather than in fnaf4 like most of us have assumed in the past. you see, in ultimate custom night, you get an item called the 'death coin' that can eliminate one animatronic from the game. but if you use it on golden freddy, you don't eliminate him from the game you just get jumpscared by fredbear and then hear some strange sounds. (strange noises) ahhh (more strange noises) huh it almost sounds like fredbear is underwater. which we all know is gonna be terrible for those springlocks anyway, i played around with those audio files and got them to here (strange deep laughter) laughter, obviously (more strange noise) let's find a suit that's right for you. (more strange noise) and there was more fantasy and fun where i came from. that last one feels really random right? like, roar, i'm an angry spirit, who just killed you, but let me tell you about my love of fantasy, fairies and long walks on the beach first. (i'm very in touch with my emotions...) however, the phrase 'fantasy and fun', is a direct reference to the first game in the franchise. where phone guy welcomes you to... it's scott telling us that golden freddy is the same spirit who speaks to the crying child via the fredbear plush at the end of fnaf 4, but who dates all the way back to the first pizzeria and the missing children incident. phew! you got all that? good, beacuse that's the easy stuff. well, not easy, obviously considering i'm on page 4 of this script and i've only just talked about the first event in the series but there is consistent logic and evidence to back it all up. however, it's at this point that things get messy from a timeline standpoint. you see, right now there are two dangling threads of events that directly conflict with each other. one the first freddy fazbear location has to close, so it can reopen sometime before 1987. however, it has to remain open at least until 1983 when the fnaf 4 bite happens the event that prompts phone guy to call back to the fnaf 1 location, informing them that the springlock suits are being retired. this is important because phone guy later makes a point of saying that the spring bonnie suit is still being moved which implies that afton is still using it to kill kids aka the missing children incident is still going on even after the bite of 1983 that would all be fine except for point number two according to handunit in sister location, circus baby's pizza world is opened after freddy fazbear's is closed. (handunit talking) again, this wouldn't be a problem if it weren't for the empty girl's bedroom we see in fnaf 4. as we established in a previous episode using the fnaf survival logbook, the crying child is michael afton, which would make this his sister's room - elizabeth afton. the girl who gets herself clawed and goes onto possess baby on the opening day of baby's pizzaria. that's why she's missing and why her room is empty. but that can't happen if freddy's is still open. and freddy's can't be closed until the bite of '83 causes the springlocks to be retired so that phone guy can make his call. you see the problem there? do you understand why creating a timeline of this stuff is so darn complicated anyway to move forward we have to apply rule number one that i talked about earlier and throw out some of the phone guy information in order for the events to work freddy fazbear's first location closes in the aftermath of the missing children incident with no pizzeria to serve as his murder den, afton tries to launch a new pizza restaurant: circus baby's pizza world. it's important to note that this is an actual restaurant and not the underground rental service you see in 'sister location'. (we'll get to that one much later.) based on the name, we can be confident that this place has a clown aesthetic, which makes it likely that all the animatronics who don't fit into the freddy fazbear's series of restaurants were made specifically for this place. the minireenas, balloon boy, jj, dee dee and, of course, the star attraction: baby. notice how the all even look alike. however, on day one of the restaurant opening, elizabeth - afton's daughter - finds herself alone with baby and gets herself clawed. we know that it's closed on day one both from baby's story in 'sister location' and from this hidden news story about a supposed gas leak posted on scott's website in the lead-up to the release of the game. this in turn explains a lot of the weirdness going on in fnaf 4. why elizabeth's room is empty; why michael afton has nightmares of animatronics with "stomach mouths"; and why william locks michael in his room and has so many surveillance cameras following him around. he doesn't want what happened to his daughter to also happen to his youngest son. you see why it's so important for circus baby's pizza world to happen before the events of fnaf 4? before 1983? a lot of pieces fit in place if it does. anyway, in the aftermath of the tragedy, he buries baby, and most of the other humanoid characters, underground in a facility that we will eventually explore in 'sister location'. the rest go to the new and improved freddy fazbear's pizzeria, which is set to reopen. but first, running parallel to all of this, and i mean all of it, is fredbear's family diner. not the sister location we visit in the game 'sister location', but the only sister location actually called a "sister location" by phone guy during his fnaf 3 calls about springlocks. we know for a fact that fredbear's family diner is the fnaf 4 location based on this purple hat teaser that came out with the release of the game. brighten the image, look down at the bottom right hand corner and fill in the blanks and you get yourself "property of fredbear's family diner". we also know that it should fit here in the timeline because of one small detail that scott made note of with the release of fnaf 4's halloween edition while nightmare puppet and nightmare mangle weren't canon, he made it clear that nightmare balloon boy was. now, if i'm right about circus baby's pizza world and the red-cheeked design of its characters, then the crying child would have come across balloon boy. he existed at this point in the timeline. but because both the puppet and mangle don't exist until the fnaf 2 location, neither of them would be appearing in his nightmares. therefore not canon, therefore the timeline continues to make sense. so, at this point, we know how the story goes: william is working there as what appears to be a suit technician, michael afton (aka the crying child) has witnessed his friends and maybe even his sister get killed. i mean, he's even locked in the supply closet with what appears to be the body of golden freddy. at the end of the week, at his birthday party, he gets shoved into fredbear's mouth by his brother and crunch, he ded son. the spirits of his dead friends, all five of them, remind him that they're still here for him and the whole incident goes down in history as the bite of '83, based on the tv easter egg in fnaf 4 and the code in sister location's secret room. whooaohaahaoaah but again, it's here that we hit another little wrinkle. you see, in the fnaf survival logbook, it asks michael whether his favorite ride was the carousel, a feature that was only present in the fnaf 2 restaurant. this also coincides with my hypothesis earlier about the midnight motorist minigame and "junior's" being another name for freddy's version two. it would make sense that "that place" that he is going to is indeed him running out to the new freddy fazbear's location. but we know michael gets bitten in 1983 and that the fnaf 2 location is open in 1987 based on the paychecks you see in the game. fortunately, though, there's an elegant solution this time: the fnaf 2 location is just open earlier than we thought. remember, fredbear's family diner being open doesn't preclude a new freddy's location from also being open at the same time. the new and improved freddy fazbear's pizzeria is just open earlier than we all thought. at least as early as 1983 and continuing through 1987 when a new series of murders happens and the bite of '87 gets it closed down. this all allows michael to visit "that place" again, have the carousel be his favorite, but still die in 1983. because william doesn't want to lose another child, especially since he's in his own killing spree, he puts security cameras everywhere and uses the illusion sound discs (first introduced in the 'twisted ones' novel) to scare michael away from the restaurant. that's what he means by "he'll be sorry when he gets back". william is intentionally locking him in his room and giving him nightmares, hence why michael is so scared by the time we see him in fnaf 4. additionally, ultimate custom night proves that the nightmare animatronics are just that - nightmares. illusions. (nightmare fredbear talking) (nightmare freddy talking) both these lines indicate that before, they were just an illusion. they had no flesh. but now, in the latest game, they are real. so, contrary to popular belief, these things were never real animatronics, just a glorified way for william to keep his son away from his murder locations. except, obviously, it didn't work. despite his best - well, maybe not his best, but his most stalkerish - efforts, michael gets crunched and dies. a fact that becomes very problematic for the timeline considering that michael afton clearly survives until the end of the games. we see him in sister location. we watch him get scooped. we hear about him burning in fnaf 6. how is all of that possible if he's already dead? surprisingly, there is a way to solve it, and i have the evidence to prove it, but, sadly, it'll have to wait until next time. this ended up being a twelve page script which there's no way that we can do all in one week. so, in the words of dee dee, (imitating dee dee) how unfortunate! how unfortunate! this is a thing i hate to do! but the rest has to go in a part two! (normal voice) anyway, don't worry, we'll get it out as fast as possible. it's already written, we just need to divide this up for editing purposes. in the meantime, though, make sure you jumpscare that subscribe button to-- well, who knows what it does at this point, but it makes me feel good about the effort i put into this video, which is really nice. \(^o^)/ so, make me feel good. it also improves the likelihood that you're going to see the conclusion of this episode, which is even better. and, in the meantime, if you missed my last fnaf theories, well, watch the ones from fnaf 6 linked onscreen right now. you'll need them to really understand part two of this theory when we get into the more recent events. now, if you'll excuse me, remember! that's just a theory! a game theory! i've got to go rolling to recording part two right now, so i'm gonna go do that. yeehaw! final fnaf theories! ( maybe) anyway, now that we've spent an entire episode chronicling the fictional deaths of 10 to 12, oh no i forgot the puppet so that brings it up to a bakers' dozen of 13! now that we've accounted for all of those children's heinous murders, let's talk about security (security shark!!) no, really, as it turns out, you don't need a human-size security puppet wandering around your house to keep you safe. but you could probably use... a vpn they're smaller, they require less maintenance, and they're like a 100% less murder-y. conveniently the sponsor for today's episode is nordvpn which, if you've never used a vpn before, is a great place to start. i've talked about online security and vpn's in a lot of other episodes from the whole watch_dog series to the game lab where i hung out with real world hackers. if you haven't seen those, you should probably check them out because they're what started my interest in vpn's to begin with. before that, i didn't really even know what a vpn was. but the short story about them is that they're a program that redirects all the data that comes in and out of your computer from the internet. thereby making it a lot harder for someone to hack you or for other malicious stuff to happen to your devices it's basically like your own personal internet filter. and there are two things i like a lot better about nord than other vpn's. because like i said, after those watch_dog episodes, i tried a bunch first, nord lets you connect six devices with just one subscription, meaning that you don't have to feel wonky about connecting to public wifi anymore whether it's using your computer at mcdonald's or your phone at wendy's. i just really like fast food. and the internet. and the combination of both of those things, okay? second, the theorist team and i actually tested nord's connection speeds relative to other vpn's we've tried in the past and objectively it's way faster. as you can imagine, i go through a heck of a lot of internets working on these episodes, so to me, that was the single most important thing about a vpn. so if you've been worrying about connecting to a sketchy wifi network somewhere, if you have roommates who are fast and loose with your home internet password, or you just want a little extra protection for all your personal information, get yourself some peace of mind and check out nord. there's a link to them down in the description below, so click it down there, or, simply head to nordvpn.com/matpat where they are having a huge discount off of their subscriptions with our code. seriously it is almost 80% off, which is massive. so go and do it now, protect yourself the theorist way. hackers are way scarier than animatronics, i don't know what you're still waiting for, security puppet was not effective. i mean look at how many kids still died, what were they thinking?when i started this channel 7 years ago, it took me about a month to put together every new video. it's funny, 'cause even back then i couldn't produce videos fast enough to keep up with the youtube algorithm. the more things change, the more they stay the same, right? now, obviously research and writing were a big hurdle in that, but the thing that took the most time was editing. i had no idea what i was doing. i was using the base video editor that came with my laptop at the time that had absolutely zero functionality and crashed literally every other day. i would lose just days worth of progress to a crash, a failed render, whatever. i couldn't tell you a keyframe from a crop factor. i was literally stop-motion editing frame by frame, pixel by pixel to get things moving across the screen, no exaggeration. thousands of photoshop files with things just moved a pixel or two at a time. the long story short is that i wasn't very good, and i wasn't very fast; and i learned pretty early on that: if i wanted the channel to grow at all, that i needed to produce more videos faster. enter gaijin goomba and ronnie oni edwards, two of my fellow creators who had reached out for help earlier that year. goomba wanted to find more people to watch his show 'gaijin gamer', to which i responded, 'hey, goomba,' 'no one really knows or even understands how to spell gaijin', so thus, his show became 'game exchange' (now known as 'gaijin goombah media'). ronnie, meanwhile, reached out to me after the third episode of game theory which was on illusion of gaia; just because he was excited to talk to someone who was equally passionate about such an obscure snes title. what was supposed to be an hour long interview ended up lasting three hours for this podcast that he had just started. funny enough, that was actually my first ever interview as a youtuber. both guys were passionate about fusing education with gaming; just like i was with game theory, and i realized that the three of us working together had a better likelihood of helping us grow than if we were all working separately. so, i asked them to join the channel. to their credit, they said yes. they accepted my offer with little more than a handshake and a promise to deliver them their ad revenue at the end of every month. times were different on youtube back then. so with that, at a whopping 10,000 subscribers, game theory, transformed into 'the game theorists.' it became clear that ronnie liked editing more than writing or hosting, and since, like i mentioned i sucked at editing, he just focused most of his time on editing for game theory. we called it the 'editing dungeon'. his first episode was "the cost of minecraft diamond armor", and i remember sitting there watching the first draft of that episode and finally for the first time seeing game theory in the way that i had always envisioned it looking... his experience and skill with animation and illustration was able to accomplish things that in two years of working on the series i had never been able to do! but finally, game theory was looking the way that i had always envisioned it looking. it was doing things that i had wanted to do and just didn't have the skill to execute on. for the next five years ronnie was our go-to editor. a silent hand behind a huge number of the videos that you've seen on this channel, on film theory, and all the other theorist channels. *shuddering* that's why it shatters my heart to tell you that on july 4th... ronnie was found dead. a victim of suicide.
[all resources can be found in the description] we found out two days later... we had been communicating about a project that he was editing on, he went silent for a couple of days, and so we went to his apartment to check up on him... only to be met with the coroner's notice. *sniff* the next day stephanie and i were in the hospital about to have our first baby. as you can imagine, it was an emotional weekend, and it's been an emotional roller coaster ever since. i've been wanting to do this video or say something for the last two weeks but we wanted to hold off on a memorial until we were able to contact his family and get their permission to do it. but, ronnie had a really rocky relationship with his family. and so, we've had no luck, and now with news slowly starting to get out that something may be wrong- we had no choice. ronnie, in all the years that i knew him, dealt with demons that only he could understand. scars left by a childhood that he kept under a lock and key. over the years he would give me glimpses as to what he had gone through, but i never had a complete picture. what i can say is that he did his best to move on; to strike out on his own, to move beyond the trauma of his past, to take his mental health into his own hands, and take his recovery seriously, one step at a time, every single day. that past also gave him a personality that was probably best described as... an acquired taste. he was incredibly sharp and incredibly witty, but he also had this ability to cut through a person's facade in a way that was sometimes hilarious and sometimes a bit off-putting. even after years of working with him, i would walk away from some conversations questioning whether i should be offended. like, his sarcasm was so dry that there were times where it's like, "was he joking or is he mad at me?" "should i be offended right now?" it was hard to tell sometimes. and it was that same personality that, understandably, sometimes got him into trouble with people who weren't familiar with that part of him, who didn't understand that that's the way he processed the world, that that was the way he dealt with social situations, that he was a person with dark periods who had a tendency to sometimes lash out with anger. and to anyone who saw that side of him, i am sorry. it wasn't an easy side to deal with, but that wasn't ronnie. ronnie wasn't an arrogant person, he was just socially unsure. he was unaware of how his behaviors would be perceived by others. and sorry that so few of you got to see the true ronnie, ronnie as he really was. the one who gave me a hug at the end of our gamelab episode together. the one who took pride in his obscure internet trivia. the one who relished in every new dig that he would come up with for gaijin goomba. the one, the one who would be so- those moments were the true ronnie. when he was unburdened by his past. when sunlight would peek through all the clouds. it would take a lot of patience to get there, and a lot of long conversations and phone calls. but when he got there, it was great because you knew that it was honest. and it was genuine. it was a person who was free. ronnie told me once of the early days of the channel's history that it was his goal for his animations to be recognized and for him to be influential as an artist. *moment of slience* and if i were to tell him something right now, i would say, "you did it." that- that he achieved that goal. that the game theory style; and anyone who has ever mimicked the game theory style, or anyone who has ever had a show on these channels. that was ronnie's style. he was the person who created that. over the years we've had a lot of editors join the team because lord knows it takes so long to make these episodes. and, more often than not, they say that they were inspired by ronnie and the work that he had done on the show. so, i hope that at some point deep down he knew the impact that he had and that he had achieved his goal. my one regret is that i never took the opportunity to tell him how proud i was of him. of how much he had evolved as an artist, of how sophisticated he had become in his own voice and how elaborate his animations had gotten. his work hasn't just had an impact here on this channel. his work has had an impact on the internet at large, and i hope... that he saw what we all here saw. that he was an incredibly talented artist from day one, until the day that we lost him. i think it's just one of those things that your mind gravitates towards in these sorts of situations, right? what you could have done, what you could have said. so i think it really merits mentioning. we're all really busy, every hour of every day round the clock. but, take the opportunity to tell people what you think. how much you appreciate them, how much you love them, how proud you are of them. even if that person is really weird in the way that they take their compliments, like ronnie often was. it'll stick. it'll land. and that compliment will really mean a lot. any way you slice it, ronnie's loss is a tragedy. any loss like this is a tragedy... he was my friend... and he was the person who worked on this channel longer than anyone, second only to stephanie and i. but, hope that through his tragic loss, there could be some good that comes out of this, that this video and the conversations that ensue in some way start to break down the stigmas around talking about mental health, social anxiety, and suicide. first, and most importantly, remember, you are never alone. never. even if it feels like you have no one to talk to. even if you're talking to someone and it feels like they can't say the right thing, it's okay. it's about you not having to carry the burden yourself. it's about you not having to go through this alone. keep talking, keep conversations open, because it is the single most important thing in these sorts of situations. it's about you being able to give voice to what's wrong, to what you can only experience without being judged. i know from doing fan meet ups at events, like vidcon, that a lot of you who watch this channel go through these struggles that you're dealing with social anxiety, with suicidal thoughts, with depression, and what i often hear from you in those stories is that this channel, this community, has helped bring you through the darkest of times, the lowest of lows. a breakup, a loss of a family member, whatever dark thoughts might be circulating through your head and that, is the biggest honor for me to hear, that me nerding out in my closet somehow gave you hope to continue on, to know that you weren't alone, that your mind processes things differently and that that's okay, and that other people are out there just like you. but i also recognize that this is a battle that you have to fight every single day, and it's a battle that you have to win every single day. ronnie fought that battle for a lot of days, and he won for a lot of days but it only takes one loss... so, don't be ashamed to have your voice be heard, to share your story out there with people who are ready and eager to listen to it. the theorist community is a great place to start, everyone here is so thoughtful and supportive and loving and caring that's the beauty of social video in general, that it unites people, and at a time when social video and social media are constantly tearing each other apart let's remember that it has positive to offer, too. that it can unite people. that it can give people who feel like they have no one to listen to them someone who is there to listen. but, also reach out in real life.
[resources provided in the description] there are countless numbers of services out there available to help you: suicide hotlines, websites, therapists, people who are trained to help. i'll include links in the description but just do a google search, they are there. but most importantly of all, remember that you are important. that you are valued and that you are loved by more people than you could ever possibly think of. there's gonna be a lot more to come on this channel when it comes to honoring ronnie's memory. look out for live streams that are gonna be dedicated for suicide prevention charities. i know that trailer drake and gaijin goomba and some of the other theorists have things planned to honor ronnie's memory. and, in his memory, check out his show: 'digressing and side questing'. it was always one of my favorites (our favourites). honor his memory by living, most importantly of all, and talking openly and honestly with each other. that's most important. i'll miss you buddy. i'll miss you and your lime green shirt and vest that you wore to literally every meeting that we had. like butter, ronnie. (from 'game theory: exposed!') like butter. we love you. we miss you ronnie.
- the game theoristshey matty patty, just wanted to say i loved your last two doki-doki theories. well, uh, thanks monika. that's really sweet, actually. in fact, we liked them so much that we wanted to give you a sneak preview of our new game! the portrait of markov, i believe you're familiar. wow, that's uh, that's actually really exciting! i would love to start to find out more about your secret origin story. is this a download code, or...? well, we didn't want to make it too easy for you. we thought it would be fun to play a little game. uh, huh huh huh... no knives or ropes, i hope... of course not, silly! *adorable sayori giggle* oh... none of that, all you have to do is win an arm wrestling match against natsuki. really?! that's all? uhh, okay... *thump* *thump* *oh god no* let's go, cupcake! *o no* *glitch* (hello matty patty) *more glitch* (someone tell matpat that catpat did something to his recording!) *corruption overload* hello-o-o-o-o internet, welcome to game theory, the show that asks the hard-hitting questions you need to know the answers to, like, could a teenage girl actually get this swole? that's right, today we're revisiting the indie horror darling doki-doki literature club, which in case you aren't familiar, is known for two things at this point; its classically kawaii schoolgirls and its memes. specifically today, i want to focus on the buffsuki meme; a super-sized version of the game's smallest and most malnourished girl, natsuki. even though the original art for the buffsuki meme was posted to twitter by asko_v and happened to be based off of the buff riku model from kingdom hearts- -a part of me likes to think that maybe my portrayal of natsuki during our playthrough on gtlive helped in some small way to contribute to this horrific- -reinterpretation of the incredible hulk. "it's not nice to make a lady run, you know?" (deep voiced matpat) anyway, this original art made its way through the ddlc community, inspiring a whole sub-genre of other memes, before finally being painted onto a real-world brick wall- -as a mural, and i think all that shows you that the artistic creativity of the doki-doki community is almost as impressive as their ability to data mine games. now, as a huge fan of ddlc, though, it did get my little theorist brain a-turnin'. is this actually possible?! could natsuki-- or, any teenage girl in her position --actually buff up to those extreme of levels? as someone whose muscles have always looked more like a japanese manga girl than a terry crews type, you could say that i have a bit of a personal stake in this- -one, too, because if it works for natsuki, it's gonna work for me. macho mat, here i come! oooooh yeaaaaaah! to get to the root of this problem, we have to go back to what bodybuilding is made of; no, not muscles, science! ...and muscles, honestly, yeah, muscles too. but, to answer the question, we got to know the science of how to build muscle in the first place. everyone has a range of muscle that your body naturally gains based on a lot of different genetic factors; everything from whether you have a y chromosome or not, to your height, to the thickness of your bones, and subtler factors too- -like how efficiently your body metabolizes food. that's why no two people will look the same, even when they do the exact same gym routines. what is the same though for everyone is the actual process of how your muscles get stronger. when you use your muscles more than they're used to, whether it's running really fast, lifting something really heavy, or clenching your buttocks during a boss run- -it causes microscopic tears in your muscle fibers. that's why your arms and legs end up hurting after a challenging workout, like what happens to me when i carry the four cases of diet coke that i need- -to make it through the week from my car to the refrigerator. oh, they're so heavy! why can't i just get a soda fountain mainlined into my room? now, muscle damage may sound really bad, but that whole motto of, "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger!" was actually written by your biceps. muscle tears cause your muscle to become inflamed, literally that swoll look that the jocks are going for after a workout, except that swoll is actual swelling. you are literally swollen, just like when you hit your head or stub your toe, that is what's going on. again, none of that sounds like it's a good thing, but it's actually a response from your body to flood the area and repair the damage. it does that by activating dormant muscle stem cells, called myosatellite cells, in your body. when you exercise a lot, your body becomes really good at making these guys, and deploying them to patch you up after every workout, and they do such a good job- -that your muscle fibers are actually bigger and stronger after the repair than beforehand. but building muscle like this takes up a lot of energy, and in the game, natsuki is basically known for one thing: being hungry. in the game, monika speculates that she's so short (a pocket-sized 4'11") because natsuki is physically malnourished, to the point that the game shows her- -falling asleep in the classroom, accepting food from other characters just to keep on going, and even implying that her dad abuses her by not giving her food or lunch- -money, and this is backed up by her age in the game. at first glance, you might think that natsuki is younger than the rest of the literature club members, but she's actually the same age as everyone else; the magic legal- -for a visual novel number of 18, even though she's small enough to be about twelve. so the first and most basic step for natsuki to take in her quest to buff up is to improve her diet. while the carbs from all those cupcakes she's bakin' may actually help her, body builders take a much more scientific approach to gettin' their gains on than just- -eating a whole lot of junk food. one common approach is the 40-40-20 system, which stands for 40% protein, 40% carbs, and 20% fat, where you base your diet on getting a gram of protein for every- pound of body weight. so, how much would that mean that natsuke needs to actually start buffing up? well, the typical muscle gain workout for a 4'11" female would require a minimum of 1,200 calories per day, which is honestly nothing compared to pro body- -builders, who typically need between 2,600 calories if you're a female, and about 3,300 calories for the guys, sometimes even maxing out at 5,000 calories per day- -which you can guarantee is a bit more than a few cupcakes and a protein bar. but remember when i said that there are a lot of factors that go into gaining muscle? well, even if you're killing it in those macros, (that's, uh, fit people speak for eating well) your body has its own internal limits for how much lean muscle you can- -typically gain. because a lot of people want to know about this stuff, fitness experts have actually come up with a formula to calculate how much your body's max lean weight is. martin berkhan's formula is one of the most common online, and plugging natsuki's height into it, we get ourselves a whopping maximum lean muscle mass- -weight oooooooooof...! 108.3lbs. wait, that-that-that's it? just over a hundred pounds? there is no way our buffsuki meme weighs only 108.3lbs. for comparison, here's what 5'3" body builder debbie laszewski looks like at 145lbs, it is definitely impressive. (she could probably crack a walnut with those biceps.) but she is nowhere near the size of buffsuki, whose biceps are twice as big as her head! so, uh, sorry guys, i know that we all wanted to run out there and get on the buffsuki exercise bandwagon to show the world our hot new bods, but there is no way- -for natsuki to even get close to buffsuki territory... naturally, but then again, she could do it with a little help, and by little help, i mean a whole heck of a lot of drugs. one big factor in body building that we haven't even talked about yet is testosterone. testosterone accelerates muscle growth, increasing your body's rate of protein synthesis, decreasing the rate of protein breakdown, and activating more of your- -muscles' satellite stem cells. it is like the magic bullet for muscle builders, making muscles repair more quickly and deteriorate more slowly, and as long as the rate of muscle growth is higher than- -the rate of deterioration, your muscles can theoretically keep building bigger and bigger forever. the problem when it comes to natsuki though is twofold. 1: natsuki is a girl, and thus has less testosterone, meaning that she has lower muscle maximums than a guy. and 2; even if she were a guy, the human body just doesn't make enough testosterone naturally to become the total gorilla juicehead that is buffsuki. enter steroids, (anabolic steroids, to be specific.) artificial substances that mimic the testosterone in the body. these things can drastically increase a person's upper muscle limit, while allowing them to gain muscle much faster than normal. how fast are we talkin'? faster than yuri goes from friend to total stalker. a study from the charles r. drew university of medicine and science showed that men who were taking 600 milligrams of testosterone a week and doing nothing- -gained two pounds more muscle in a 10 week period than men who were taking no drugs but exercising three times a week. you heard that right; taking testosterone and doing nothing gained them two more pounds of muscle than people who were actively working out. the group who were using testosterone and exercising, meanwhile, gained an astonishing 13 pounds of solid muscle in that same 10 week period. crazy, that is the power of testosterone! another study performed at mclean hospital in belmont, massachusetts tracked 157 male athletes to determine their ffmi, or fat-free mass index, basically a- -measurement of muscle size. the highest ffmi recorded in natural athletes was 25, while the buffest steroid users clocked in at ffmis of 32, and for comparison, ronnie coleman, widely regarded- -as the greatest body builder of all time, managed to hit an ffmi of 38.8 in his prime. now, the ceiling for female bodybuilders is a bit lower than that. nataliya kuznetsova, the european deadlift and benchpress champion, has an ffmi of 28. but there are additional steps that the aspiring buffsukis of the world can take, like taking estrogen blockers and  a cocktail of other steroids to push their ceiling even higher. many body builders, both men and women, stack different kinds of steroids, combining their effects along with other drugs, to further increase their growth- -potential, and studies have shown that these increased dosages correlate to increased muscle gains, so in theory, it's possible that with the right mix of highly- -controversial, and sometimes illegal drugs, natsuki could in fact begin to reach for her buffsuki dreams! in fact, it's not only possible, it's probable, because remember when i said natsuki is 18 and 4'11"? well, on average, females stop growing at age 14, so natsuki should be well out of her growth spurt territory, but as we established before, she's not the average girl. she's malnourished, and when you're malnourished as a child, one of the most common results is delayed puberty, a condition where, basically, your body puts- -off things like growth spurts and sexual maturity until you can get yourself ahold of some more cheeseburgers. natsuki is a perfect candidate for this! she's smaller, looks younger, is less mentally mature, and we already know that her dad's been starving her for years. without going into puberty, your body never sends the appropriate signals to lock off your bones' growth plates and stop growing, which leaves you in this pre-puberty growth limbo- -potentially until you're in your 20s. what does all of this mean for natsuki? well, it means with the right, um, "chemical help" she could not only gain more muscle, she could also potentially grow taller. hgh, or human growth hormone, became a favorite stimulant for body builders who pushed the boundaries, starting back in the 1970s, because it's associated with- -massive muscle gains, above and beyond even what you can get with anabolic steroids. so, by taking hgh to increase her muscle mass, natsuki could trigger a growth spurt to bring her up to a more intimidating buffsuki-like height and also expand her- -natural maximum muscle mass dramatically, increasing the effectiveness of her all-new eating habits and whatever other cocktail of steroids she's using, as- -well. long story short, as horrific as it may sound, her malnutrition may have just worked in her favor, delaying her growth phase until now, which in turn opens her body- -up to all sorts of crazy growth from the steroid cocktail she'd be taking. step 1: start eating a ton of food in 40-40-20 ratios to build up some energy reserves. step 2: load up on the hgh to dramatically expand muscle capacity and get the most out of your newly started puberty growth spurt that she missed out on- -when she was younger, and; step 3: work out like crazy while taking major doses of anabolic steroids to remove the upper limits of her muscle growth, and tada! she'll be looking like buffsuki in no time, ready to take down her abusive father or beat smarmy youtube hosts at arm wrestling matches. ironically enough, she'll probably have more testosterone in her system than either of us will. oh, and she'll also be suffering from a deeper voice, blurry vision, acne, possible baldness, 'roid rage, as well as psychosis and permanent heart, liver and kidney- -issues, depending on how long she's visiting this wonderful world of steroids. i didn't mention it earlier, but i wanted to finish up with it. these things are dangerous, this is in no way an endorsement to go out to your nearest gnc load-up, and then hop over to the deep web to see what you can stab- -into your arm. none of that, none of that is a good idea, in no way, shape, or form. just keep going with normal exercise, ladies and gentlemen. so, there you have it. is buffsuki possible? for as stupidly absurd as this image appears, theoretically yes, yes, it is possible. it's like the perfect storm of things that have to happen, but you could do it. if you couple natsuki's history of malnourishment with a dangerous cocktail of human growth hormone, anabolic steroids, exercise, and a proper diet she could, in fact, pump her body up to look a heck of a lot more like buffsuki than you'd ever imagined. no file tampering required, monika. but heeey, that's just a theory. a game theory! thanks for watching! "the portrait of markov, i believe you're familiar." can you pitch it lower? yeah, so... *deep huhhhhmm* *laughter* summon your diaphragm steph, can't you do that anymore? i have no diaphragm! where'd your diaphragm go? also, having a beach ball- *gibberish and laughter*dear nintendo, oof hahaaaaaaaaaaaaa where do i even start? i have no idea where to begin with you i mean, i knew i knew it would be bad, but i did not expect it to be this bad. this this is so so much worse than i imagined. i knew i knew that giving a ten-year-old a wand that controls the weather would be potentially terrible but i didn't know that it would be the most disastrous video game item that i've ever covered in my entire. life my god this thing is freakin terrifying!!! *budum bum bum* okay... deep breaths we can do this. just put it out of your mind austin we can get through this just one step at a time... *clearing throat* hi, it's me (hi!) austin and i'm here once again to talk about the weather in one of the zelda games because apparently something is utterly wrong with me, but i mean cut me some slack. what else am i gonna talk about when doing a video on wind waker the science of fish? who are also expert cartographers and the ethical implications of being a seaside town that is heavily dependent on fishing killing and eating a fully sentient species? god, this game is horrifying. seriously, i think they should have won an award for being the most low-key horror game for the gamecube. i don't know why people were complaining on myspace back in 2002 about the game not being the dark grown-up zelda title that they wanted. this game is terrifying. anywhere, you look starting almost immediately out the gate with that freaking kid that chases you around with snot dangling out of his nose! get away from me!!! i don't want your boogers on me!!! ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh [please stand by] that's just scary to me because i'm the parent of a toddler and i have a very intimate relationship with the tactile experience of human nasal mucus and stuff like this just hits me way too close to home. but you're not here to listen to me wax philosophical about the tensile strength of snot. you're here to listen to me rip a beloved zelda franchise apart with the awe-inspiring powers of science! so let's get to it. how exactly does the wind waker work and more specifically, how utterly... disastrous is it? [music] okay a summary for those of you who don't know or a refresher for those of you who forgot because this game originally came out dear lord sixteen years ago! meaning people born on the day of its release can legally drive in the united states now. just great first people born when final fantasy 7 came out turned 18 now this and i feel freakin old! y'all probably know by now there's three different parallel zelda timelines that follow three different courses of events following ocarina of time. one where the player couldn't be bothered to beat the game, so ganon won and link was gutted like a fish and two where link defeated ganondorf during ocarina of time and link was returned to being a child and one where he continued to live as an adult. wind waker takes place in the third branch of this timeline what's known as the adult era! in fact, in this branch it's the game that takes place immediately after the events of ocarina... more or less. ganon comes back and there's no hero to stop him so the king of hyrule floods the entire country turning it into a sea. then buff-ilion's of years later or just a hundred or *processing* whatever some time after this ganon starts doing bad stuff in the newly created sea so our reincarnated link a ten-year-old boy is gifted with the wind waker as a tool to aid in his journey to stab ganon to death again! the wind waker is capable of doing a crap ton of stuff. some of which is honestly pretty boring like communicating with the sages but then it can do even more serious things like change the direction of the wind, creat cyclones and strangely changed day time into night time. now the last one seems like it would be perhaps the most disastrous of all three since it would affect ecosystems all across the entire world not just locally. not to mention the possibility of flinging all occupants of the planet into the air and slamming them back down due to angular momentum, but it turns out that the cinematic for this particular ability actually begins and ends with a fade to black meaning that we have no idea how long this process even takes from either link's perspective or the perspective of everyone else in the world. for all we know he's just standing there slack-jawed like a jackass staring into the middle distance like he's in a bethesda rpg while people go about their affairs trying not to bump into him for hours. or maybe the thing is filled with the same opiates that are in big boss's giant vape cigar and link is just getting suuuper stoned while a high pitched woman vocalizes behind him,  so it seems like time is passing faster. [more music that goes a little something like this]
whooooaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa *clearing throat* anyway, this isn't that important because it's by far the least damaging thing this glorified weapon of mass destruction is capable of. the biggest problem by far is the ability it has to change wind directions, but in order to understand why that's so dangerous we're gonna have to talk a little bit about how wind works. i talked a bit about this in my breath of a wild video but wind exists essentially because of heat. specifically differences in the amount of heat energy across the entire planet. this is due to a variety of factors. but the biggest creator of wind is actually the sun. at any given moment, the sun is only heating about 50% of the planet. this difference in heat from only one side of the earth getting sun creates differences in pressure since hot air rises and expands while cold air sinks and condenses. when gases in the same container... (in this case the container is the earth) are different temperatures and under different pressures they want to mix together until they're both the same pressure and same temperature in thermodynamics this is what's known as equilibrium and since cold air is denser and under higher pressure this means that in almost all circumstances cold regions of air move into hotter regions of air. the existence of gravity and the rotation of the earth complicate this somewhat but it is a pretty good rule of thumb for those of y'all who are taking meteorology 101 and we'll talk about how this affects things later on but for now keep this in mind. air moves from high pressure to low pressure. so before we can draw any conclusions about the climate of hyrule we first have to figure out how fast the wind is even moving because if we can't figure that out we're dead in the water. that was not intentional... now those of you who have watched my show know by now that in order to measure stuff in video games we need to do pixel measurements and in order to do pixel measurements we need a ruler and already you can see that we're gonna run into some problems in that... a each iteration of link is a reincarnation of a past link and there's quite possibly a large variety of different heights they have and b, the proportions of windwaker are just freakin goofy, man! i mean, i love this art style but i can pretty much make no presumptions about anything being standard because this game is super super cartoony but then i remembered that there's one thing that appears in every zelda title one object. that's immutable one thing that's impervious to change because it's not a reincarnation of anything but rather it's the same thing every single time the master sword this is a relic used by links going all the way back to skyward sword and off the top of my head there's not just one but two games we could use to get this length breadth of the wild and ocarina of time and as much as i'd love to jump into breath of the wild considering that winwaker is closer to ocarina of time both in the zelda timeline but also in our real-world release dates and therefore presents less margin for error based on the changing tastes of 3d modeling artists over time that's the one i'm gonna use to get the length of the master sword and in order to do that *breath in* we're gonna have to take a deep breath and (may need to pause for this... you've been warned) use the pool in the lakeside laboratory plus the iron boost which allows us to sink to the bottom and use the meter marks to determine links height which is approximately one point six one nine meters or just shy of five foot four inches which we can use together with the pythagorean theorem in order to reduce inaccuracies in our math to do pixel stretching in photoshop to determine the length of the master sword which is just shy of a meter at 99 centimeters or three and a quarter feet! knowing the length of the master sword we can now hop back to wind waker where we need to determine ten-year-old links height because measuring with the master sword would be really really inefficient which gives us a link who's only 103 centimeters tall (congrats on being in the 110th percentile for ten-year-olds you'll grow up eventually little buddy)using this we can determine his run speed four point three five meters per second or just short of 10 miles an hour which will allow us to measure a length of land and time how long it takes for the wind to travel that distance which finally gives us a base wind speed of wind waker, which is 30 meters per second which is 59 knots or 68 miles per hour we're still not done yet. because in order to know everything we need to know about the pressure gradients we're gonna have to know the size of map which we can get by measuring the speed of the king of red lions which is 13 knots 15 miles an hour or 24 km/h measuring how long it takes to traverse one distance of one side of one square of one grid of the map which gives us a length of four hundred thirty four meters multiply that by seven to account for one side of the whole map and then square that number which gives us a total area of nine point two seven square kilometers wow *panting* ;-; all right no biggie just blew through a week's worth of math in just under a minute and heck since you're here if you were impressed by that epic display of math and breathlessness why not subscribe to the game theorist channel for more? ehh? ehhhh? [que epic music] hold on to your butts because this still isn't enough information to get us where we need to go because in order to know exactly how dangerous this thing is. we have to know one more thing. the latitude of hyrule. [fancy music] latitude for those of you don't knew... knew? good job austin... latitude for those of you who don't know (good job!)
 is the degrees norse... my god can't even [bleep] say normal words now... latitude for those you who don't know is the degrees north (good job again!) or south of the equator something is the further north or south the more rotation there is in wind systems the more extreme seasons are and the colder and darker your winters get. you may think it's impossible to determine where the latitude of hyrule is but you would be wrong because the constellation ursa minor or the little dipper is in wind waker and we can use the little dipper or more specifically the star polaris to figure out our latitude which we can use to figure out our pressure gradients and how they relate... to wind speed. polaris also known as the north star is a star system approximately 433 light-years away from earth and it aligns almost exactly with the north pole which is why it's been a consistent navigation star for well ages. it's only visible from the northern hemisphere so we know that hyrule is in the northern hemisphere already. now in order to figure out our latitude we simply have to measure how many degrees above the horizon polaris is which is difficult without an actual astrolabe but you're pretty damn close using a combination of the in-game compass and the telescope which gets us a latitude of 25 point  29 degrees which places hyrule just on the barrier between the tropics and the subtropics. anyway, we finally have all the information we need to build our geostrophic wind chart of hyrule. that's those cool maps with the lines in them that show the pressure gradients of different regions. in the subtropics at latitude 25 in order to maintain wind speeds of 60 knots the air pressure has to drop by one millibar every 21 nautical miles. millibar is one one thousandth of a bar the standard atmospheric pressure at sea level in most areas. that's actually not that much of a change all things considered that's more or less the amount of pressure a quarter exerts on the ground due to gravity. that's how much the pressure changes over 21 nautical miles in order to maintain a 60 knot wind not too bad, right? wrong interestingly while air in the form of fronts move from high pressure to low pressure wind actually moves perpendicular to the movement of pressure fronts. this is due to the coriolis effect the way fluid dynamics are affected by being on a rotating body. winds therefore in the northern hemisphere rotates clockwise around the high pressure systems meaning if the wind is blowing from west to east there's low pressure in the north and high pressure in the south this is really important because once you understand how window works you know that the wind waker is the most dangerous relic in the entire world. air like all non photon matter has mass that's where the air pressure itself comes from. the weight of the air being pulled down on top of you by gravity. if it didn't have mass there'd be no air pressure also you already know this because i told you and you're a smartypants that air moves due to pressure differences specifically it moves perpendicular to direction the pressure fronts move clockwise around high pressure and parallel to the pressure gradient which means in order for wind direction to change air pressure has to move and in wind waker the wind speed changes direction in... three seconds!!! i timed it three second which means if you're changing the wind speed from northeast to southwest a giant pocket of air weighing 136 billion kilograms will be ripping across i roll at a terrifying 1435 meters per second! as it rushes in switch places with the low-pressure front this is over four times the speed of sound so instead of a gentle breeze it'd be like crashing into a brick wall in a jet fighter (really?) seriously (okay ._.) the force of air hitting link alone is equal to the power output of a freaking train engine at full speed this shockwave wouldn't gently move it'd pulverize everything in its path but austin, i hear you saying the high-pressure system doesn't need to travel across hyrule it can just move around it, sparing the inhabitants death wroooooongaaaah ignoring the fact that this shows a tragic disregard for anybody unfortunate enough to live around hyrule and not in it and that taking this longer path to change wind directions would result in the pressure systems moving at mach 6 instead of mach 4 and essentially reduced the surrounding countries into steaming craters. hyrule itself is still totally screwed due to one thing eddie's... eddie's aren't affected fluid dynamics caused by prefers flows like oh i don't know sudden wind changes over a hundred and twenty knots at once. this sudden change of wind direction and speed would almost instantly spawn thousands thousands of f1 to f2 tornadoes across the surface of hyrule tearing everyone apart at the seams because somebody couldn't be bothered to wait for the wind to change direction on its own! this thing this stupid thing is so freakin dangerous and not to mention that the pressure system required to maintain those wind speeds at peak would qualify as a category 1 hurricane on the saffir-simpson scale hyrule should not be this tranquil. one wave with this stupid wand should reduce the entire country to a storm ravaged ground zero similar to the red spot on jupiter, but no let's just hand it over to a ten-year-old. no big deal. hey, hey link! you want to save the frickin day break that stupid thing over your knee and go make yourself a sandwich sincerely, austin. [thank you for watching!]*heavy breathing, distorted orchestral music* ẗ̷̢h̶͓̕ả̴̡t̸͖̄'̷͙̑s̸̥̀ ̶̼͋ṉ̸̊ọ̵̆ẗ̶͙́ ̷͚̈́g̶̳͊o̶͙͒i̷̺͆n̸͙̆g̴̮͐ ̸̥̐ṯ̷͊o̵̙͝ ̵̨̌p̶̛͓r̷͕̒o̸̲̾t̶̘͆e̵̼̽c̸͍͒ṫ̴͚ ̷̰͝ŷ̵̜o̵̯̊ṳ̵́ *scream* *game theory intro music* d̶̖̾o̴̲̓ ̵̭̐n̷̟̎o̷͍̔t̵̩͘ ̴̫͠l̷̪̀o̸̲̾ó̶̢k̸̲͊ ̷̗̈b̴̘͗e̸͖͝h̴̝̅i̶͇̋n̷̙̑d̶̕͜ ̷̪͑ȳ̵͈o̷̩̍ū̷̮.̷̧͌ *game theory intro music* t̸̛̪h̷̗̓e̷̓ͅy̶͓̅ ̵̨̅l̴̡̃i̵̠͋e̷̗̽d̵͍̔ ̷̱͗t̸͙̋ó̵̲ ̴͔̔u̶̖̓s̸̯̈́.̴̖̐ *game theory intro music* hello internet! welcome to game theory, the show that usually tries to encourage you to look at the world with both your mind and your eyes wide open. but not today! because i'm talking about close your eyes - hands down the scariest or, if not the scariest, the most wtf indie game i've played in 2018. now, i've suffered through a lot of scary horror games that make you want to close your eyes, but this is actually the first one i've played where closing your eyes is an actual game mechanic. in fact, the first thing that you see when loading the game is an orientation, welcoming you to the view laboratory in the year 2057, teaching you how to blink. you learn to blink, you learn to walk, and then this happens... "oh no no no"
"what is this?!" on the ceiling we're presented with a very clear mystery - a code written in reverse wing-dings 3: "i need to know what happened to everyone." and that's just the first few minutes of the game. it doesn't get much less disturbing from there, forcing you through fields of human hands... "yes please, take me on your magic journey!" ...burning hellscapes and cities made from purple alien tongues. while you're having to fight against these guys. "what is this game?!" as if that wasn't strange and creepy enough, all the while you're having to fight against these guys. "it's the puppet now..." "now this is just like waiting for a theory isn't it?" clearly there's a story here. a really interesting story to boot, but it's hidden under layers upon layers of hallucinations, cryptic dialogue, disturbing visuals, and heavy symbolism. so today, i want to make sense out of the story of close your eyes, or at least piece together the story beyond "drugs: not even once". now, a lot of the game's story is actually told to us in the game's opening minutes, but it's not until you've played through the whole thing that any of this makes sense. as part of the tutorial, we see a chart for a test subject: cecily newman, part of the view program. sex: n/a, blood type: n/a, husk status: insufficient data, age: 4 hours, height: 5'6" and weight: 1,437 pounds?! that is one heavy androgynous baby! the way the game presents this almost makes it sound like cecily is a monster. but the first time that we get a "game over", things start to make a little bit more sense. that body that we see on the floor during the "game over" screen isn't a human body, cecily newman is a robot. a robot with no assigned sex, blood type, an age of only four hours and a weight of 1,437 pounds. so that explains mostly everything that we see on the chart, but then, what does "husk status" mean? in the opening sections of the game we get the warning that "husks can kill", and that if you're attacked by a husk that you should cover your eyes. hence the game mechanic of closing your eyes. but it's not until halfway through the game that we're able to piece together what these stretch armstrong rejects want and how they're related to us. according to this diagram, the view program designed a procedure called "cognitive transfer", a process that takes a human and then splits them into two parts. their consciousness is saved into the entity's yielded essence storage, e.y.e.s for short, which is then installed into robot bodies like cecily's. it's that classic sci-fi trope of a mind upload, a way to live forever. so then what happens to the other half of the human, the discarded human body? well, as we find out, the discarded human bodies - the ''husks" - are then sent to sector a23/25 for testing and mutilation. that's right, ladies and gentlemen! the husks that we encounter throughout the game aren't monsters at all! they're not even evil, they're just the abandoned remnants of people. remnants that want to reunite with the lost part of their consciousness by hunting down the host robots and taking the eyes back. in fact, we're told that the husks were purposely made to look scary so that the humans would reject them. quote: "they made us deformed so everyone would fear us". it's also clear that view's program was controversial as we see protest signs claiming that ''cognitive transfer is murder'', and that this whole thing is one big hoax, which then leads to the question: what exactly is view? is it a mega corporation? is it a secret government program? the game doesn't really tell us directly, but we do get hints. we find out that view stands for vitality and identity extraction for wwv. wwv like what? world war v? it may seem ridiculous, but that's what it appears to be. remember the game is set in the year 2057 and in one of the four possible endings of the game, the husk ending, you attempt to free the husks from the view facility. but as soon as you throw the gates open, you're met with this apocalyptic wasteland, a world that's been ravaged by war. that might be part of the reason view wanted to develop a cognitive transfer program to begin with. if you can take your country's people and implant their consciousnesses inside robot bodies with no need for food or water, it would be possible for people to hide underground indefinitely to wait out the nuclear fallout. now, there's still one major character in the story that i haven't talked about: that dress-wearing robot that you see at the start of the game. i'm gonna call her 'the witch'. while the cognitive transfer program seems to seperate human test subjects into two groups, the mutilated husks, and the host robots, the witch seems to straddle a line between both those groups. she has a robotic body and yet she seems to speak as one of the husks. or at least speaks for them like when  she says: matpat: they made us deformed.. stephanie: ...so everyone would fear us. in one sequence we see her commanding them like an army and yet she seems to be on our side throughout the game. closing your eyes reveals clues sprinkled throughout the environment. those clues are coming from her. as she says: matpat: every time you close your eyes, i send these messages to help you. stephanie: aaw, that's nice! so what, or more accurately, who is the witch? during one of the more memorable and trippier sequences in the game we follow a path through a field of hands, human hands, buried in the ground the kind of hands that husks would have had prior to their mutilation, before seeing the witch hovering over a lake. in order to create a path to the which the player must retrieve two glowing flaming essences from two statues. the statue on the right has the appearance of one of the host robots like the body the player inhabits at the beginning of the game the statue on the left has a face that resembles the witch's face by retrieving and uniting these two essences the player opens up the path these two statues in the flames that the player retrieves from each of them suggests the idea that an essence has been split across two bodies the witch's body and a host robot body. it's also a small detail. that's easy to overlook, but each one possesses one of the green glowing eyes one holds the right eye and the other holds the left eye. this essence imagery starts to make even more sense when you consider it in the context of one of the game's endings the recollection ending. in this ending as the facility is on the verge of exploding, the player comes across the witch, trapped underneath some falling debris by choosing this ending you choose to give the witch your eyes. we can actually confirm that this is what's happening because we briefly catch a glimpse of an abandoned husk near the witch. (at this point in the game we've been captured by a husk in our eyes have been stolen.) by giving the witch our eyes, the player implants their consciousness into her we, as the witch, then choose to end our life by jumping into the abyss to escape the exploding view facility the game ends with the uplifting message of ''you opened your eyes.'' what's interesting is that this ending is called the recollection ending. recollection suggests the idea of being reunited with your old memories, not discovering something new. so what is being recalled through this ending? well, it's simply the fact that you are the witch. or, to be more accurate, that you're carrying part of the witches consciousness that's why the subtitle to this ending is ''you opened your eyes''. you remembered who you once were cecily newman is the true identity of the witch this is further supported by a lot of easy to overlook details throughout the rest of the game. first, we know that the witch has two eyes. near the end of the game she says ''give me back my other eye" which suggests that her consciousness has been split into two halves that she's trying to reunite half lies with the witch, and the other half lies with the player. as the witch tries to guide him through a trail of breadcrumbs so she can be reunited with her other eye. this also explains the imagery we saw earlier in the dream sequence with one host robot statue, and one witch statue, each containing half of a fiery essence. and when they're reunited a fiery eyed husk rises out of the water a completed being but the secret connection between us and the witch is held in the very opening moments of the game see how there's a single husk here with the view branded witch hovering over top of it? as we approach the program glitches out and binary code flashes up if you translate that binary string into regular text it reads 'i can't see',  basically the powers that be don't want us to face the truth our eyes were ripped out and out of that, view created the witch. as soon as we start to be exposed to that truth, it causes the system to collapse. we also see this imagery of a lone husk kneeling on the ground appear at another moment in the game right before the recollection ending. where we physically must touch the lone husk surrounded by the devastated war-torn world to move the game forward. in the process, we've symbolically reconnected with ourselves before we cut back into the perspective now of the witch we remember, in a symbolic way, what we once were and what we lost. in the pain of those recollected memories is what causes us to jump off the platform. the horrible truth of this game is pretty evident. the world is ruined. even if you managed to escape the view facility, there's nothing to escape to. right at the games ending, we get a glimpse of what the which might have been trying to escape to. we see a vision of a meadow, outside of the facility, but the game doesn't end there. we snap back into the reality of the view facility on the verge of destruction as a countdown timer displays the seconds remaining we can rush to join the husks and free them from the facility, or we can reconnect with the witch escaping down and to the abyss. there is a third option however, we can simply wait, and watch the seconds tick down, until at last the facility explodes, killing everyone. the husks, the witch, and us. the game calls this the best ending. ''everyone closed their eyes.'' it seems like a grim note to end on but in a way it seems like it might truly be the best ending. the husks are able to find release and death rather than having their eyes open to the terrifying reality of a ruined apocalyptic world, cecily the witch is able to rest forever, not having to recollect the painful memories of her own creation, and the player can rest. knowing that the horrors of the view facility have all been completely destroyed. normally, we think about opening our eyes as a good thing. we want to seek knowledge and understanding. we want to be enlightened about the world around us, we want to know the truth. and the game starts itself with a very clear mystery. that code on the ceiling saying ''i need to know what happened to everyone.'' however, in close your eyes, the best ending is the one in which everyone keeps their eyes closed. as the adage goes, ''ignorant is bliss'' and well it's not an adage i often agree with. when it comes to a hopeless situation and a permanently ruined world, perhaps it is truly best to remain in the dark, blind of the misery and horrors that exist outside. perhaps the best thing you can do in those sorts of situations is exactly what the games title tells you: close your eyes, and that is perhaps the scariest part of this whole game. but hey! that's just a theory! a game theory! thanks for watching. oh, yeah, there's also a bunch of purple octopus creatures roaming around, it seems like they might be the owners or creators of view as evidenced by them standing over the lone husk at the beginning of the game, and wandering around the view facility right before the end of the game, but i'm not super clear on it i think they might have been the things that started world war 5 not 100% clear anyway, play the game it is free, and it's totally worth your time and then tell me what you think in the comments below by the way if you're still in the mood for depressing indie game theories, well then open your eyes to the box on the left while you're watching the depressing truth behind the binding of isaac, it's one of my all-time favorite theories the box on the right meanwhile, is what youtube has determined is the best video for you based on your watch habits i have no idea what it is so if it's good if it's bad, who knows? if you're so inclined, let me know what it is in the comments. i'd just be curious what youtube thinks is the best for you and in the meantime, i'll be back next week with someone who we haven't talked about in a while and some science. i'll see you then.dear nintendo, hi, it's me, austin and i'm here once again to take your cute, beloved franchise adored by millions, and twist it until it's barely recognizable for both my own amusement and for the amusement of other cynical jerks out there like me recently, matpat deduced that being a pokemon trainer was the worst career move you could possibly make, and you know what? he's totally right. the boring old workaday trainer job is not only grueling it's just not freakin worth it amazingly though, in my own journey into the pokemon universe i discovered something that mat missed. something that honestly i think we all missed. i didn't see a single comment in that video about this. there is a secret loophole, that if you're willing to forego the normal path of wearing holes in the bottom of your shoes walking miles down routes 1 through 17 in your quest to become the literal best pokemon trainer in the universe, only to be rewarded with enough change to buy yourself a victory dinner and a cheap hotel room for the night *deep breaths* you can become the richest person in the entire world in practically no time at all, and destroy entire nations in the process, and in order to do that, you're gonna have to do one simple thing. get yourself a pokemon that knows the move payday mat gets a pass from missing this move because, well for one thing it kind of misses the spirit of the pokemon games and the anime, which is to go on an adventure and enslave sentient creatures and force them to fight each other to the death for your amusement and profit, but i actually discovered this completely by accident. you see my original goal, the original video i was going to do was to figure out of all 728 pokemon moves, which was the most dangerous and damaging of them. and i got all the way down the list to move to the six. move six! six entries in, and i'm already distracted! i'm trying to figure things out, give the people the blood, gore and horror that they want out of the game meant for children, and here i am distracted by the jingling car keys of "boy! i just gotta know how much money you can make from payday!" for the purposes of this video we're gonna use the figure matpat uses where a hundred pokedollars is thirty nine cents in us currency which i did double check and seems to be on the level. anyway, on with the show. how much money can you make using the move payday? for those of you who don't know, payday is a move learned almost exclusively by the pokemon meowth or their evolutionary forms. it's a physical normal type move where your pokemon attacks your opponents by literally throwing money at them. as a nice bonus at the end of the battle, you get to pick up all the money from the ground and keep it! providing you wipe the blood and fur of the murder victim off of it first. the way the amount is calculated is pretty simple it's the level of your pokemon times five per use. if you use it, three times the level five meowth that's 75 smackers use it once with the level 100 meowth the boom five hundo right in the pocket all for the low low price of a little bit of pokemon ptsd so basically on that little bit of information right there you can see that the goal to making a buck would be to simply have the highest level pokemon use payday the most in a short amount of time right and for the sake of simplicity and to save room for later because i have a lot of info to get through today. let's run through it like this you take a level 100 meowth through a high level like poni gauntlet and start running in circles let's say that you have the ability illuminate active, which doubles your encounter rate and let's say you were even smarter and equipped an amulet coin to double the money you earn at the end of the battle, taking into account that each step takes exactly a fifth of a second that means it'll be approximately one point zero seven seven (1.077) seconds on average until you encounter a wild pokemon which will be around level 15-55 boom! you two-shot it using payday the pokemon dies without getting a chance to write home to his family. since you're level 100 you use payday twice, that's two thousand big ones right there or $7.80, and then you rinse and repeat this over and over and over again. given that the average battle would last approximately forty two point eight three seconds plus the average of one point zero seven seven seconds in between battles, this means that you're earning a cool forty five point five four (45.54) pokedollars or eighteen cents per second that is a whopping ten dollars and sixty six cents per minutes or six hundred and thirty nine dollars and forty nine cents per hour. that is over twenty eight times the average hourly wage in the united states according to the us bureau of labor statistics that means if you work 8 hours a day nine-to-five murder-genociding helpless pokemon five days a week for a whole year., you'll make a salary of--get this--over 1.3 million dollars a year. boom! suck on that, elite four! instead of being the very best that no one ever was i'm just gonna sit around in luxurious capitalist fashion and reap the fruits of my cute little cat's labor every day before going home to my glorious mcmansion. like between being a nomad with aching feet and being a millionaire entrepreneur i know which i would pick, but it doesn't stop there--oh, no--because a business is not a business if it cannot be scaled up. so how do we scale this up? well for that we're gonna have to turn to youtuber verily--verily...verlisify? verlisify. verlisifaius the third...?  i don't know how to say it. anyway, he figured out a way to twist and exploit the world of pokemon for his own personal gain in a truly magnificent fashion using a combination of the pokemon smeargle, who can learn a move called sketch which allows him to copy any move he wants in the sos mechanic from ultra sun and ultra moon allows you to build a pokemon with the moveset roost, payday, happy hour, and false swipe. happy hour doubles the amount of reward money that you receive from a battle which combined with the amulet coin leads to a four times money payout, now we're cookin' with gas! whereas these combined skills allow you to maximize your payouts, roost and false swipe allow you to essentially prolong a battle for an eternity forcing your opponent to call for help every turn while you mercilessly pelt them with money, turning the game from a cute visualization of cartoonish dogfighting into a sort of meat grinder simulator where you drop pokemon in one end and pick blood-soaked money out the other. eventually you reach a maximum payout of a hundred thousand pokedollars or three hundred ninety bucks and the battle collector winnings and start the process all over again now we know that these battles happen in real time because time in the pokemon world progresses at the exact same rate as our world, and amazingly this streamlined process bumps your salary from a still pretty impressive six hundred and thirty nine dollars and forty nine cents per hour to one thousand two hundred and seventeen dollars and 64 cents per hour or 2.4 million dollars a year. that is quite the freaking stack of cash a suspiciously high stack of cash. which brings us back to what i mentioned earlier: "-and destroy entire nations in the process!" those of you who know a thing or two about economics know that money doesn't come from nowhere. and as far as i see it the move payday a move that remember involves throwing a literal, valid, spendable currency at your opponent acquires its money in one of two ways. either a). it's a glorified printing press where whoever uses it is essentially pooping out fresh money on the fly which means you're really gonna have to invest in some.. money laundering..? or b). it's teleporting valid currency from somewhere in the world into your pokemons hands. essentially glorified theft, which 'yikes.' now, i'm gonna be honest: according to my calculations one person doing this would not negatively impact the economy one way or the other by all that much. although, i'm sure you would definitely raise some eyebrows over at the irs. but if the chaotic windfall of bitcoins has taught us anything where there's easy money to be made short-sighted people will come rushing from all corners of the globe there's a 100% chance if this money-making scheme were discovered, it would not remain a secret and in order to figure out the economic impact of this move, we're gonna have to figure out how many people are using it across the entire world of pokemon. now it's hard to tell exactly how many people would catch wise but we can build an approximation from the very video that outlines this method as of this moment the money making guide by verlisify has 19 hundred likes on it, which is probably the closest estimate we'll get for folk who are playing ultra sun and moon that are using this method. now hold on to your butts because we're gonna use this one number: one thousand, nine hundred... and use it to blow your electrode. so considering that at least 1900 people are presumably using this method to get rich in ultra sun and moon, we need to figure out a few things; the population of the various pokemon regions their gross domestic product or gdp, which is economic shorthand for how much money this country is worth. although that's a bit reductive and it's incredibly difficult to know for certain how much money is in the world. this is the closest thing to a real number we can use to estimate how big the giant pool of pokedollars is. the pokemon canon is comprised of seven major regions- kanto, johto hoenn, sinnoh, unova, kalos, and alola. all of which are based off of real world locations almost to the exact layout kanto is the kanto region of japan, johto is the kansai region, hoenn is the kyushu and sinnoh is the hokkaido region while unova is new york and new jersey and kalos is france and alola, of course, is iceland. i mean - hawaii. using the maps we have available, i overlaid them with the various regions our real world they're based on the get estimates of their area, which we can use in conjunction with population densities to get an estimated population unova was the most difficult since the hudson hack and saw and the east aren't perfectly aligned with a unova while alola was the easiest since i could just copy and paste everything. given the approximate population densities of each region the pokemon ones are based on and their square miles and kilometers i determined that kanto has a population of seven hundred and thirty eight thousand, johto eight hundred ninety four thousand hoenn nine hundred and eighty seven thousand sinnoh 1.3 million, innova 8.7 million kalos five hundred forty-seven thousand and aloha eight hundred ninety seven thousand or a total population of fourteen point one seven million in all the mainstay pokemon games. since nineteen hundred people is exactly 0.21% of the population of alola -and i'm presuming for the sake of simplicity that this percentage of users remains consistent across region- means that in total, there's approximately twenty nine thousand nine hundred ninety, three people using the payday and happy hour amulet pokemon genocide method of money-making. but we're still not done yet because while this is incredibly helpful in figuring out how much money is being created, it doesn't give us a sense for what the economic impact would be. for that we need to multiply that gdp per capita out of the gross domestic product per person for each person in each region according to the gdp of the respective countries with the united states having the highest gdp pc of fifty seven thousand fifteen dollars and sixty six cents followed by japan with thirty eight thousand eight hundred eighty nine dollars and seventy six cents and finally france at thirty six thousand eight hundred forty six dollars and four cents, which when multiplied appropriately, gives us a total pokemon gdp of one point eight trillion poka dollars or seven hundred twenty four billion real-world dollars. okay, got all that?  [confusing bit over] need a glass of water? i sure as hell do. all right our giant pool of money for the sake of this video is seven hundred and twenty four billion dollars, but we've got almost thirty thousand people or 0.21% of the population working eight hours a day five days a week to make the most money they possibly can. which interestingly it's estimated that approximately 0.33 percent of the population is chasing bitcoins. so this number holds up. so let me kick you a scenario. you're the first person to discover this pokédollar printing press method. you start making your thousands every day, and one day someone is like "hey, you seem so rich all of a sudden?" and you know, she's your best friend, so you decide what's the harm and telling one person? so you give her the details and keep on going with your business effectively printing your own money and all the while the online forums dedicated to pokédollar mining are starting to stir. creepy, scammy companies are starting to form suddenly, one year later everyone's joining the hodl gang. your secret is out, and now thirty thousand people are murdering psyducks on the daily to increase their pokemon bank account size so they can creep ever closer to that elusive poké-lambo. presuming that this method prints money instead of say stealing it from old ladies a la teleportation, what does this mean? inflation. with this many people printing this much money, you've grown from infusing the market with a mere two million four hundred and thirty five thousand two hundred and seventy one dollars and ninety cents a year to a terrifyingly high, seventy five billion nine hundred and sixty four million one hundred and eighty five thousand and eight dollars and 20 cents per year creating -get this- an annual inflation rate of ten point four eight percent. which is not great a little inflation is a good thing. the united states federal reserve tries to keep it hovering at about three percent each year because it encourages spending and growth. ten point four eight percent though would have a pretty negative impact on the economy. people would want to save money or even borrow money because a hundred dollars that they have in january would be worth eighty nine dollars and fifty cents in december. we know for a fact that inflation like this is bad because it's the rate that our country hovered at during several bad economic crises in the past fifty years. while it likely wouldn't kill people unemployment rates would rise and the government would start investigating why inflation had creeped so high without their input. "what markets are unmonitored and unregulated," they'd be asking. (that's a scam!) and boom suddenly you and your firm of 30,000 people are before a congressional ethics board, sanctions are being imposed and blam! payday grinding is outlawed. not the greatest outcome, but it's also by far not the worst. the worst thing that happens here is you, yourself, become the bernie madoff or martin shkreli of the pokemon world. they'd write about you in textbooks for business 101 courses about the dangers of arbitrage chasing. it's not great but at least you're still alive and maybe you get a killer book deal out of it. the same, however, cannot be said if payday, instead of acting as a printing press, straight-up steals money from somewhere. and honestly knowing the way the pokémon world works, this seems far more likely i mean, how is a cat or whatever the hell smeargle is, a bob rossian dog? anyway how are they capable of straight-up making money out of nowhere? the logistics alone of keeping that much metal stored in their bodies for spontaneous synthesis is troubling. whereas pokeballs and other pokemon like abra, kadabra and alakazam have proven that teleportation and casual quantum entanglement abuse is a regular thing in this universe. it makes much more sense that those pokémon are teleporting money out of local cash registers, safes, banks, and mattresses into their hands to throw at their enemies and holy crap, if this is the case the whole freaking world is screwed sure at first everything's hunky-dory, but after a few weeks of 30 thousand people effectively stealing money from others the world economy would start to collapse. i mean just for a reference, the top 0.21% of the wealthy in america control a little over 11% of the wealth in the country and conservatively, it took them like, at least some years to get that wealth- probably decades. it would take the .21% of pokemon trainers using these moves 282 days. just 10 months to be at the same level and it would just go up from there. i mean, whatever your political leanings, look out your window, look on twitter things are you know? not great right now people are angry some people want to protect their wealth other people want to redistribute the wealth and we're just here you're right here where the top .21% controls 11.37% of the wealth! can you imagine what it would be like if the .21% controlled, i don't know a quarter of the wealth? well less than two years into our scenario, that's where we are the pokémon universe. half the wealth? less than three and a half years. by the end of a five year period if this pattern continued to the top .21% of the wealthy in the pokémon world, would control almost 3/4s of all the money in existence. there would be an unstoppable uprising, probably long before this point. political inclination would hardly matter because everyone's on the same page when you're starving. left wing, right wing, they'd all unite under the banner of cutting your freaking head off so they can afford to eat redistribution of wealth wouldn't even be a political policy issue, it'd be the meaning between life and death for 99.79% of the world population. and once thirty thousand heads rolled, there'd undoubtedly be bloody civil wars as masses of hungry desperate people with different life experiences and ideologies fought over how to distribute this money back to the people. it would be a war with death unlike we've ever seen. it would be devastating, span entire continents and cost the lives of millions of innocents, all because you didn't want to work for an honest living so, sure. maybe pokemon training isn't the best living, but it's a hell of a lot better than spending your life in prison or millions of people cheering as your head is chopped off. be safe. be responsible. do not use payday. and, apparently don't be a pokémon trainer either, just like.. be one of those dudes who owns a shop selling pokéballs to ten-year-olds. it's so much safer sincerely, austin.dear diary, yesterday was so amazing!(ultimate custom night) ♪he's here, he's there, he's everywhere!♪ ♪who you gonna call?♪ ♪psychic friend fredbear!♪ (fnaf 4) this time you'll have to keep up with me! oh... nevermind. (fnaf 4) is the purple man the phone guy? (fnaf 3) exotic exotic exotic butters (sister location) *alien shiz* tk;r;otrhbjfbkfjojhr *scott screaming cuz of all the games* *static* hello internet! welcome to game theory! where, before we close the book on our final fnaf theory, it's time to open the book on new back-to-school merch! (fnaf theory starts at 3:49) ♪ up beat music ♪ (mom get the camera) or, back to work post summer vacation merch... anyway, you guys know that i take merch super seriously. but this time, i wanted to try something really different. you guys clearly like mysteries and theories, right? (o'course) well, this is, as far as i know, the first ever youtuber merch that gets totally meta. that's right! i've personally made a real-world mystery for you to solve alongside the rest of the theorist community, hidden inside of this round of merch. the first one isn't too hard. it's about a five-step treasure hunt. but it's something i'd like to do moving forward with all future merch pushes, so, you know, if this one gets you warmed up, future ones are gonna get real serious. oh, and of course, there's a real-life reward to the first 100 people who get to the end of this little treasure hunt. they're going to be in the same group as the people with the golden coins from last merch push, so, you know, rewards are coming. we're keeping track of this stuff... so, where could these clues be hiding? let me show you what i got. this time, we worked with a factory for four months to have a specialty fabric made for our t-shirts. this isn't just your typical ink-some-stuff-on-a-shirt merch. it is all built into the fabric itself. it comes in genocide run or pacifist run editions. or you can be a total completionist and get both. also, since it's back to school season, we made a new, heavier duty backpack. like, this thing is solid. it is loaded with tons of pockets and places to store pretty much everything you own. it is rugged enough to hike up a mountain or, let's be serious, more likely to be loaded down with five ap textbooks and dragged between convention halls at anime expo. you can do all of those things too there are new socks to complete your outfits since, let's face it, you can never have enough neon green articles of clothing. a pop socket, which if you're not familiar with them is the single most useful phone device that you will ever own. if you hate dropping your phone on your face at night, well, now you don't have to! you wanna prop up that phone, to binge watch some fnaf theories? pop that socket! you want an easier way to take photos, socket to me! get two and you wrap your headphone cord around it. seriously, these things are the best! they're so darn simple and they are so effective. and what 'back to school' collection would be complete without your own theorist moleskine notebook? now, i know from meeting you all at conventions, that so many of you are either artists, writers, or theorists of your own looking for notebooks to house your ideas, so, this was something that i thought a lot of you would appreciate. it even comes complete with some pages ripped straight out of my own theory brainstorms. all of it works great, it looks great, but most importantly of all, it's gonna make you feel great. so get on it! ace your back to school look right now by heading over to the merch site. it went live with this episode. or you could always wait until the end of the episode where i can throw that link right into the video itself or you can always duel-wield the windows next to each other so you can do both at the same time. the only thing i gotta say is do it now because when we run out, this stuff is gone. everything is limited edition and the last round of merch we had some stuff started to sell out in the first 24 hours. if you place an order this week you're guaranteed to get it before the end of the month, so go ahead, give it a look! i hope you like what you see, and i cannot wait to see you sporting some new game theory green. now then, let's wrap up fnaf, shall we? even though this is part two of the timeline, we've still got a lot to cover, so in the words of phil defranco, "let's just jump into it." when last we left things, we'd covered everything up through the second freddy fazbear's pizzeria location. things like why the missing children's incident must be the first event of the timeline, the identity of golden freddy, why circus baby's pizza world has to come earlier in the timeline than most people expect, and a quick review over how michael afton is the crying child from fnaf 4. but all of that left us with a big question. if michael afton is the crying child who gets himself bit, then how is he able to come back later in the timeline for games like sister location and pizzeria simulator? well, this is where the books once again come in to give us the solution that no one would have predicted. you see, at the end of fnaf 4 we get the lines: "we are still your friends." "do you still believe that?" "i will put you back together." we've never actually established who speaks those words. ultimately, the best guess that we had was the puppet. but here's the thing, it can't be the puppet. based on this, my final and best timeline of events, william hasn't killed henry's daughter yet. the puppet isn't possessed yet. instead, that line is more likely coming from william. it's him making a fateful promise to his dead son: "i will put you back together." the thing is, he takes that promise a lot more literally than any of us would have ever suspected. he is literally promising to physically put his son back together as a robot. and we know from the final fnaf novel "the fourth closet" that william in that story is obsessed with bringing life  to these machines. and even more importantly, we know that in scott's vision of this world, robots who think they're human and don't realize that they're robots is a real thing! a huge twist at the end of the final fnaf novel is that the main character charlie, henry's daughter, is actually revealed to be one of these sorts of robots. and not just a single robot, mind you. charlie is one in a series of four robots. that's what the title of the book is referencing. she was kidnapped and killed by afton as a three year old girl and in his grief of losing his over losing his daughter, henry built four robotic versions of her, each one slightly older than the last, implanting each version with memories, so that she could grow up just like a normal kid. quote, "charlie would be a baby, then a little girl, and then a sulky teenager. then at last she would be a woman. she would be finished, perfect." end quote. it's umm... it's weird. definitely, and it opens up a whole heck of a lot of plot holes in the novel. but i honestly think that this might be what happens to michael afton in the games. clearly, he dies during the bite of '83. the 'survival logbook' confirms this over and over and over again. that is locked in. but michael is literally rebuilt by afton. put back together by william. the books allude to it, it fits with the timeline, and most importantly of all, it explains why he doesn't die after getting scooped in sister location. "i should be dead. but i'm not..." why his memory is so foggy throughout the survival logbook, but most importantly of all, why he can only die... ... through fire have you ever stopped to consider that? michael afton lives through getting himself scooped at the end of sister location but passes on, just like all the other animatronics in the end of fnaf 6 when the remnant in his body is burned away. remember, based on our timeline, william afton has already seen his daughter die in circus baby and has also probably seen that her spirit posseses the suit so he knows it's possible for a living spirit to be inside these robots. it actually might be why he sends michael down to explore sister location in the first place! "father.. it's me. michael." "i did it." "i put her back together," "just like you asked me to." he knows that michael's sister, his daughter, is still down there, so he is aware of what she is, and it might be his way of breaking the news to michael. hey there kiddo! there was uh... something i was meaning to tell you but uh... unfortunately, kinda... trapped in a wall right now..? so go down into that creepy cellar i have and pay a visit to your sister! she might prompt some really existential revelations and lastly, consider this! in the bonus cutscenes for sister location, baby establishes that she knows that michael can't die. "you won't die." "you won't die." "won't - you won't - you won't die." "you won't die." so, she might just recognize that they're one and the same. this insane sounding theory, and trust me, i recognize that it sounds completely bonkers, may actually tie into the mystery of the fnaf 4 box. what's in it? it might actually be michael afton's body... yeah. remember how i just said that in "the fourth closet" the main character was actually the third in a series of four robots? well, she almost gets herself killed at the end of book two, and is discovered midway through book three, locked in a box that sounds very similar to the one that appears in the end of fnaf 4 quote: "john moved to a large green chest, the paint almost entirely worn off. there was no lock. john knelt beside it, found the handle, and heaved it open, then shuddered... "it's... it's charlie," he said hoarsely. in the chest. she was locked in a box. that's insane, she was locked in a box! who knows for how long - days, months?" end quote. i actually know how long she was trapped in the box. it was six months. so anyway, is this definitive proof of what's in the box and that michael afton is a robot? no! but it's definitely circumstantial evidence, and think about this: remember that scott kept the box locked because he was worried that the fan base wouldn't accept the answer to what was inside of it. well... can you blame him? if he kept a broken robot kid inside of the box that would probably upset a few people because at this point of the series it would literally come out of nowhere. up to fnaf 4 this was just a story of a creepy haunted animatronic pizzeria. nothing about robot kids or anything like that. the last stretch of this series just went into some weird directions. anyway, with the bite of '83 fredbear's family diner closes, leaving only freddy frazbear's second location - junior's! a new larger location with upgraded security in the form of the toy animatronics. but after all the missing children from their last endeavor, henry wanted to take an extra special precaution to further protect his daughter. he installed an upgraded surveillance system in the form of security puppet, specifically programmed to watch one child, his daughter. as an added nod to where security puppet fits into the timeline, scott very clearly included the puppet's signature gift box as part of the visuals in its mini game in fnaf 6. a box that only occurs in the fnaf 2 location. you can even see what looks to be wanted posters in the back alley, thereby establishing that a crime had been committed in this area previously. william afton returns and, because he is a prime suspect in the missing children's incident, is not allowed back in the pizzeria. that's why we see him turned away at the door to junior's. as a result, he is forced to kill henry's daughter outside, behind the facility. her soul goes on to possess the security puppet. and she proceeds to give life to all the other lost souls still trapped in the original five animatronics. we know this based on the save them mini game, where we see the puppet searching for someone to help the dead children lying around the pizzeria. the toy animatronics are standing on stage lifeless. but most tellingly of all, we see the original versions of foxy, chica, and bonnie inactive in the parts and supply room. and yet freddy is somehow able to freely move around. this shows us that some of the og animatronics haven't been given gifts, given life yet. it's also worth noting that on rare instances, we get an easter egg of golden freddy broken there on the floor, his ghostly self phasing into and out of existence. and that's not all! get close to him, and for a brief moment you catch a glimpse of a white dot appearing in his eye. golden freddy has the spirit of cassidy already in him. except there are two problems. first, he's a spring lock suit. unlike the others, he can't freely move around because he's not kept in animatronic mode. despite the puppet's best attempts, cassidy will be forever trapped in a suit that is perpetually slumped over. but secondly, the yellow golden freddy suit is being kept, like we saw, in the fnaf 4 location. hence why in fnaf 2 and then onward in the series he 's forced to remain as just a spirit. afton continues to sneak into the pizzeria disguised as a security guard, using his signature spring lock suit and crank to kill kids. this prompts the animatronics to get angry and attack anyone in a security guard uniform. as we see throughout the fnaf novels and as the puppet reinforces in ultimate custom night "the others are like animals. but i am very aware." so they're not rationally thinking. which results in night-guard-turned-day-guard jeremy fitzgerald getting his frontal lobe bit in an event known as the bite of '87. and henceforth animatronics are no longer allowed to free-roam in the restaurant. in total, another five children die in the fnaf 2 location, again shown through the save them mini-game, before the place is shut down and the toy animatronics get scrapped. since, let's be honest, they were all kind of crap at their job anyway. but more importantly, it's at this point that afton realizes the power of children's souls. it's here where he first sees the animatronics moving freely, possessed by the spirits of the dead children and activated by the puppet. and here through the end of the series, his mission changes. he's no longer just killing kids. he's now looking to actively harness that power for himself so he can be immortal. it's a goal that he expresses in "the fourth closet". quote: "you killed them..." "they died in the suits." "their bodies were bound inside, along with their souls." "the spirit follows the flesh, it would seem," "and also the pain." "if i wish to become my own immortal creation," "my body must lead my spirit to its eternal home." this affects all his future actions in the series. so when the withered animatronics get sent back to the fnaf 1 location for storage, and the possible re-opening of the pizzeria, william tracks 'em back to dismantle them and discover their power. this leads the the cut-scenes from fnaf 3 where william systematically lures the original animatronics to the back safe room one by one only to dismantle them. before, these cut-scenes seemed super random. it just seemed like him trying to get rid of the animatronics for... reasons. but now, thanks to the novels, we actually know why he did it- to dissect the robots and experiment on them. and it's these experiments that end up producing the funtime animatronics. one big lingering question mark of the series was the nature of the funtime animatronics deep underground during sister location. how were they alive? were they possessed by more dead kids? well, we finally have our answer there courtesy of candy cadet, and the fourth closet. now, back in fnaf 6, candy cadet's stories were a bit of a mystery. each one had to do with five things becoming one thing. five keys melted together, five orphans sown together to fit into one coffin, five kittens sacrificed and then combined to fit into one shoebox, it seemed like it was referring to ennard, the amalgamation of all the other animatronic parts, but the math was always kind of wonky. ennard consisted of baby, ballora, funtime freddy, and funtime foxy, which is just four animatronics. maybe if you squinted at it, you would include the bonnie puppet, but that seemed like a stretch, and as a result, we just weren't quite sure what was going on with those stories. luckily, the release of "the fourth closet" has cleared this mystery up. quote: "a single figure stood still amongst the chaos," "out of phase with the surroundings." "at first it seemed to be a man bent over a table," "but as carlton's head throbbed" "with waves of confusion," "the man became a yellow rabbit," "not standing over a table, but over five children," "tied together as one..." "he knew exactly what he was looking at:" "the endoskeletons of the original" "freddy's animatronics, welded and melted together," "immobile and featureless," "and still inhabited by the spirits of the children" "who had been murdered inside of them" "so many years ago." "still filled with life, and motion, and thought -" "all trapped; all in terrible pain." end quote. so in the fnaf 3 cutscenes we see william dismantle the animatronics. from there he melts down their endoskeletons to discover the secret of their everlasting life. he then uses this molten spirit metal - remnant - to infuse life into his new creations, the funtime animatronics. quote again: "the table's surface was glowing orange," "and the hot metal hissed." "william took a syringe from the woman's hand" "and thrust it into the squirming thing forcefully." "he drew the plunger up, holding the needle steady as" "the syringe filled with molten substance..." "he staggered back toward the bear." "the man again pried open the heavy chest plate" "of the standing, broken bear," "then carefully inserted the syringe he held" "directly into the chest cavity" "and began to press the plunger down." what this and the candy cadet's stories tell us is that the funtimes weren't just possessed by new kids. they were created from the remnant of the original five fused together into one chaotic, confused spiritual mess. like ennard said from his original teaser for sister location, there's a piece of me in every body from those experiments, william is able to open "circus baby's entertainment and rentals," the underground facility from sister location. using remnant, he brings life to animatronics specifically designed to lure and trap kids, so he can have more test subjects for his experiments he then rents the robots out for special events in other locations why isn't there a funtime chica in sister location? simply because she's rented out. we see this hidden in the source code of scott's website around the time of  sister location's release. chica's party world is a seperate location, a client of afton robotics. and as such, she's not being kept underground with the rest of 'em. that's why she's gone, only to then reappear in fnaf 6 and custom night. but there was one thing that william afton didn't anticipate in all his plans: the spirits of the children wanting revenge. now that they were freed from their animatronic prisons, they corner william in the saferoom of the first freedy fazbear's restaurant, forcing him to hide out in the golden bonnie suit, which snaps shut, almost killing him, but not quite. it just transforms him into springtrap. the restaurant seals the saferoom and everything inside to escape liability. "the previously mentioned safe rooms are being sealed at most locations, including this one." to me, this seems like the actions of henry. who else would seal a bloody, living body in a hidden room in a pizzeria? henry seems like the best bet, but we can't know for sure. regardless, afton is locked back there until the year 2023, when fazbear fright opens. the phone dude discovesr the hidden room, and set's afton, now springtrap, loose once more. from there, we know, pretty much everything else. springtrap haunts fazbear fright, only to have it burned down. it seems to me that this, again, was henry's doing. the ultimate custom night samurai custscenes symbolize their relationship. william afton is the fox, and freddy is henry, the bear of vengeance. the last line of dialogue in these samurai cutscenes says it best. "i will pursue the fox i will find him in whatever land he has fled to it is my destiny, and it is his." throughout the games, henry is constantly trying to thwart william in escalating fasion. he starts by getting him kicked out of the fnaf 2 location. he then tries to get him arrested in the after math of the missing children's incident. he traps him, bleeding and springlocked in the walls of freddy fazbear's, and finally, he sets him on fire, not just once in fazbear fright, but a second time in pizzeria simulator. meanwhile, the rebuilt michael afton, michael version 2.0, searches for his dad to get some answers. he starts in sister location, meets baby, but falls victim to the plot of the furious tangle of spirits held in the various funtime animatronics. together, they form ennard and scoop michael's body in an attempt to escape their prison. the scooping plan works, but michael survives, because remember he's a robot. baby seems to know this based on her repeated use of: *"you won't die" being repeated* more in need of answers than ever before, michael promises his father: michael: "i'm going to come find you." which leads us, at. last. to fnaf 6. even though the puppet tried to free the spirits of the dead children in fnaf 3, it doesn't quite work. this is because the spirits were no longer complete. with parts of their souls now trapped in the funtime animatronics. which themselves are now in the form of molten freddy. this is why "paragraph 4" is such a big deal throughout fnaf 6 based on the insanity ending blueprints, paragraph 4 stipulates that all creatures containing remnant must be in the pizzeria by the end of the week. so that when it burns, everyone goes with it. all remaining remnant must be purged in order for the souls to finally be set free. michael accepts the role as night guard in the simulated pizzeria, henry summons all of the animatronics there, burns it all to the ground, and finally releases everyone. including, condemning william to hell. well, he didn't release everyone. golden freddy, still a vengeful spirit, has a bone to pick with willy. so she traps him in purgatory, forcing him to suffer for eternity in the hands of the monsters he created. and despite old man consequences telling her to relax, she won't quit. hence her soul, still being in golden freddy's twitching eyes as he fades out into the darkness and as the series hits it's final notes. i don't know about you, but between these last two videos, i think that's about as thorough as you could possibly want. so, there you have it. fnaf theorists, as deep of the deep dive as i can go. trying to answer many questions as possible all on putting things into order that make sense, also for counting that as much the evidences as possible, is it a perfect timeline? no. but i don't think there would have an ending i think mr. hippo's custom voicelines point us in that direction. (mr. hippo from custom night) i suppose if someone wants to talk, then it's best not to announce that you're telling a story. telling a story does come with its own pressures and expectations, i suppose. after all, if you're just talking to your friend, then there's no more expectations, than if you were talking in the wind! words by themselves aren't expected to carry, aren't expected to stick. but if you know if you announce you're telling a story, well then there'd better be a point to it all, you know? (matpat) and conversely, at some point, you just analyze down the story to the point of meaninglessness. in the end, whether this whole timeline is right or wrong, decoding fnaf's labyrinth of lore has been the single, most exciting and enjoyable challenge i have cover on this channel. yeah! we've covered it. a lot. a bit more that i would've like quite honestly. but for good reason, few games give their stories this much lot. and even fewer games tell their stories in such a compelling mysterious way! i've said this for a while now. but fnaf is the perfect modern game. it's cheap if not free so anyone can play it. the mechanacis are simple, it's fun to watch other people play it. (steph)... like it. (matpat) wow! oh my salmon! (back in now) and seeds in eastereggs that get other people talking online. 4 years later, and still, only a handful of indie games and practical zero tripilate games have followed in his footsteps. despite fnaf's massive success, and that perhaps is the single, greatest and saddest mystery of them all. if, this truly is the end, thanks scott for an incredible ride and providing a game that just forever change my life and this channel. but hey! that's just a theory, a game theory!!!!! thank you for watching every single one of these videos. woah! now that the fnaf mystery solved, go out and solve my merch mystery.                                    the first time i did a sonic episode on game theory was 5 years ago which makes me stop and wonder... what else was going on 5 years ago? flashback flashback flashback flashback flashback!! *aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah* i came in like a wrecking ball! *what does the fox say?* *gangnam style* *dead memes*
"why matpat, why!?" "*doge!*" ohohohohohohoho boy maybe we shouldn't be revisiting this era of internet history. *game theory intro* hello internet, welcome to game theory! where between all the nintendo, fnaf, doki doki, fortnite, and lootboxes, i thought we needed a dose of our favorite blue hedgehog. now, a few months ago i got a special request for a theory about the physics of sonic the hedgehog's running ability from dominic: an awesome member of the theorist community who i met through the make a wish foundation, and who you may remember as the voice of the internet from the mario "how deadly is the bomb" episode. anything, uh,  you wanna say here dominic? uh... make sure to subscribe to the game theorists! *whispers* and mainly for austin 'cause he's my favorite... "how dare you!" last episode i did a video on the physics of sonic, this channel had less than 50,000 subscribers! and now last month, we just crossed, 10 million! which means by the time we do another sonic physics theory, it's gonna be around 20 million, hopefully, maybe... assuming youtube doesn't implode on itself, gaming channels don't get demonetized to death, i don't do anything horrendous to offend everyone, and the video game industry resists the urge to make every single game a battle royale style game with absolutely zero plot so basically, never gonna happen. but you know what, that's probably for the best. because just think of all the disturbing sonic fanart, 20 million theorists could generate. *echoing flashforward* "woosh" anyway, when i met up with dominic, (which, let the record show, did not happen in my recording closet. we went out for pizza, thank you very much. his parents were there, i am not as creepy as i seem.) he asked me the following: if sonic runs so fast, what would happen to his legs? wouldn't they wear out and get hurt? which, honestly, is a completely legitimate question and completely deserves an answer. and even just stands to reason that it can't be good for anyone much less a rodent thats basically a mango with legs to run that much and that fast. so today we're putting this adorable little hedgehog's feet to the test to see if sonic would survive his own primary game mechanic or whether his arthritis by the end of the first level should be sending him to rehabilitationopolis zone. to figure out whether sonic is actually going fast or whether he's dead on his feet we have to know something about the actual mechanics of running. running is something that a lot of us are lucky enough to take for granted but it also seems like common knowledge that running puts a lot of stress on your body. i mean, we've all heard the warnings, right? "too much running is bad for you because of all the pounding of your joints on the pavement" especially the force delivered on your knees knees are what are called hinge joints, made up of just three bones and a relatively thin layer of protective padding called cartilage. when running, every single step puts an immense amount of force on that one joint. to make matters worse, cartilage is one of the few types of tissue that doesn't regenerate in the body. and after so much abuse it doesn't seem unreasonable to assume that by the time sonic's a few levels in, he's going to be hit with rigid stiffness in his knees, bones grinding against one other because he's worn out the cartilage, throbbing, agonizing pain, and an extreme loss of mobility. in other words, sonic would be demonstrating all the hallmarks of osteoarthritis. but, in order to know for sure, we have to dig deeper. just how long is it going to take for sonic's knees to give out? one game? two games? one level? i mean, he is running super fast and taking a lot of steps in that first act of green hill zone. so let's get to it fast. as i said before, the knee is made up of three bones. those bones are the femur, better known as the thigh bone, the patella, or kneecap, and the tibia, aka the shin. between all those bones you have two kinds of cartilage. hyaline cartilage, which covers all the areas in which the bones articulate, and fibrocartilage, which acts as padding around the balls at the end of the bones. articular cartilage and fibrocartilage are found in the knees of pretty much everything that has knee joints. and yes, that includes hedgehogs. but honestly, for the purposes of this episode, i had to stop treating sonic like a hedgehog and treat him more like a human. and that's for good reason. hedgehogs don't actually have the physical capacity to hold themselves up the way sonic can. their muscles just don't support it. their bones aren't structured for standing upright on two legs. so in order to get any kind of real-world calculations here, we need to assume sonic's joints can function just like a normal person's would. so let's see what kind of force sonic is producing. in other words, sonic forces! *ba dum tsst* you get it? cause... that was a game that came out? called sonic forces? you know what? sir isaac newton would've appreciated it, alright? in a study run by southern methodist university's locomotor performance lab, they calculated the force of running to be 2.32 times bodyweight when running at 5 meters per second. and 4.64 times body weight when running at ten meters per second. at the smu lab, they use this kind of data to demonstrate that running force increases linearly with speed, making it really easy for us to calculate the force of running at higher speeds like the ones that sonic is going to be running at. we'll just need sonic's official weight and his speeds of--! haha... oh god. *dun dun dun!* we need to calculate sonic's speed! now, if you've watched this channel over the last five or six years, then you know sonic's speed has been a bit of a sensitive subject for viewers of this show, but! i'm going to try to get a reasonable number of calculations so even bluhedgehog4lyfe and i&lt;3sonic69 in the comments will be satisfied this time. we have some canon information that we can absolutely start with, specifically according to sega of japan's sonic profile that sonic weighs in at 35 kilograms, (77lb) which honestly is pretty heavy for a hedgehog but only about half the weight of your typical human. i also know, based on your very vehement comments from that sonic is slow episode, that sonic actually has two officially canon heights, which are 3ft 3in tall for modern sonic, and 2ft 6in for classic sonic, which we know from the original japanese sonic cd game manual. we also see the height difference at play in any game where classic sonic and modern sonic appear together, one great example is in sonic generations, but to absolutely, 100% make sure that everyone is happy here, i ran all of today's calculations with both measurements. now, to calculate sonic's speed i translated his canon height into pixel measurements so i could then get a pixel-to-centimeter ratio for each of three separate sonic games: sonic 1, sonic 2, and sonic mania. and yes, technically all three of these should be classic sonic heights, but again, i wanted to be thorough here. this is important  because i wanted to to not only establish just a single sonic speed, but his speed in the specific context of the game that he's in at any given point in time. so using all of this overwrought logic and the different heights and the different pixel measurements across all of these different games, you get a shockingly wide range of speeds. our lowest speed is short sonic from sonic one taking a brisk basic level jog: 7.13 meters per second or just under 16 miles per hour. and our fastest speed is tall sonic in sonic 2 at a whopping 24.8 meters per second or 55.4 miles per hour top speed... where i guess, he decided he really did wanna go... ...somewhat fast? or at least around the speed limit of a highway. for sonic mania, i even went so far as to calculate individual speeds for his different boosts, and special items. so i calculated everything from no-shoes sonics, to sonics in speed-shoes, to sonics on speed boosters, and even comin' off of springs. and despite running that whole gamut, sonic mania's speed still mostly clocked in in the middle, with the slowest bring no-shoes sonic at 17 miles per hour and the fastest being spring-loaded sonic at 44 miles per hour. plugging in the top and bottom of our speed ranges here to calculate the type of forces that could expect upon impact, we're lookin at 115 newtons to 402 newtons on each leg as it's striking the ground. now, for context when usain bolt ran the hundred meter sprint back in 2009, he clocked in at 12.27 meters per second, and weighing in at 88 kilograms, even he is putting more force on his legs at 440 newtons than sonic is. but there's an even bigger issue here remember how i said that too much running is bad for us because the pounding on our knees? well, it's a complete lie! a total old wive's tale! multiple studies from npr to runner's world prevention all state that, quote: "runners appear to have no more risk of developing osteoarthritis than nonrunners." believe me, i tried looking for other credible sources here to refute what i thought must've assuredly been bunk science. big runner over here is trying to pull the wall over all of our eyes, but no. quote again: "in a cross-sectional study of almost 75.000 runners, there was no evidence that running increases the risk for osteoarthritis, including marathon participation." i. was. shooketh. and, believe me, this totally bums me out, because i'll take any excuse to not exercise. but it turns out that running is, unfortunately, good for us. the cartilage doesn't wear away, it actually gets stronger when you use it. *mumbling* huzzah. sorry, guys, it looks that i have to invest in a treadmill. so there you have it. the idea that running causes injuries is a total myth and has been debunked by repeated scientific studies. sonic's running would not be bad for his health at all. this theory just, dammit, i literally feel defeated hoho! wait a minute! that's it. play that back, ronnie. *laughing* it's not the running that's going to damage sonic, it's the stopping. look at how terrible that form is! this has got to be the thing that's gunna do him in. after all. we know that's he's traveling really fast. and he's just digging his heels into the ground. we can clearly see in the games how he's stopping almost on a dime. and turning around so quickly. that can not be good on his hinge joint of a knee! just when sonic thought he was out of the green hill zone he is in for a world of scientific hurt. we have talked about this problem in the past with everything from link's hookshot to assassin's creed's leap of faith, but video game characters still can't seem to learn their lessons about momentum. specifically that when you change it really fast, you tend to loose an arm. or rip yourself in half. or just plain kill yourself. so, is sonic changing momentum gonna shatter his knees into a thousand pieces? i can only hope. because then i can put it in the title and it'll be really exciting and no one will claim clickbait! to figure  this part out, i went back to the speed calculations again, except this time i didn't just need to know his speed, i also needed to know how fast he stops. so once again i used that whole range of speeds calculated over multiple sonic heights and multiple sonic games using multiple sonic speed multipliers since the impact of stopping at 16 miles per hour versus 55 miles per hour is gonna look pretty different. i calculated stopping speed using the same formula you would use to calculate the force needed to stop a car. this is at its core in energy transfer problem. so we basically need to calculate how much kinetic energy sonic is losing from stopping using the classic equation kinetic energy equals one half times mass times velocity squared. then, figure out how much force that translates to using the energy force equation; energy = force times distance, and this all makes sense if you think back to physics, right? as sonic slows down he's losing kinetic or movement energy. but, remember that energy can't be destroyed so it has to go somewhere. in this case, to stop quickly, sonic is gonna have to be losing alot of energy fast. which means that his legs are gonna have to take a big impact to get that kinetic energy to drop to zero (0) it's not really hard math, because we have all the numbers that we need its just that i did alot of permutations across all three games, two sonic heights and then all those speed boosts. so this is a little slideshow i put together of me running all those calculations *fangirling over math* ahhh so exciting!* this is me and steph doing one half mv squared in sonic 1 for short sonic, and this is me and steph doing one half mv squared for short sonic in sonic 2 and this is me doing soloyolo one half mv squared for short sonic and sonic and knuckles and this is us just one half mv squaring it up anddd a few more sslidesss annnd were done *clap* in calculating how much kinetic energy sonic is losing, i notice two things right away. one big factor in kinetic energy is mass. how much somethings gonna weigh. sonic only weighs 35kg which is just the average weigh of an 11 year old girl in the us. so no matter how fast sonic is going, he's always gonna have less kinetic energy because he's just so light-weigh. once i calculated all the kinetic energy's of all of out sonics, we had a range of just over 1000 joules of energy loss to over 10,000 joules of energy loss. that last calculation was for tall modern sonic if he was in sonic 2. now, that sounds like it's a hugee spread. and honestly, it is but the actual force of the stop has to do with another big variable here, and that is stopping distance. one detail in the sonic franchise that i never noticed, and am only now appreciating that i have started to do the research on it, is that sonic has a slightly different stopping distance across each game and as he goes faster, his stopping distance tends to increase. which is what you'd expect the real world behavior to be like. good attention to detail, guys. so again i did all the same calculations using pixel measurements from tall and short sonic across all three games, across all different scenarios. based on pixel measurements and sonic's stopping animation in each game, i found that the stopping distances vary from just under half a meter in sonic 2 using short sonic to six point two three meters in sonic mania if you choose to calculate using tall sonic. that is an enormous range but again, gotta make sure that i&lt;3sonic69 is happy. if you see him in the comments, make sure you say hi. i'm sure he could use a friend today. so finally, after getting all the kinetic energy calculations and all the respective stopping distances i plugged it back into the force = energy x distance equation and came up with the range of stopping forces of sonic's legs throughout the various games. the force's ranged from 641 newtons for short sonic in sonic two, all the way up to 2395 newtons for tall sonic oof in sonic two. and what do all these numbers mean matpat?? did we crush sonic's bones into a thousand pieces when he tries to stop ded (dead) in his tracks? is the force so great, that his legs would fall off or explodes upon impact before green hill zone is finished??? my little theorist heart went pitter-pat as i looked up the scale of what these numbers translate to and i found... that they don't do anything. wait... what? that can't be.. right! carry the two, don't forgot the square divided by the fraction.. nonoooooooo! sonic doesn't just not shatter the bones in his body, he doesn't even break an ankle! 
i was sooo positive that he would meet the same sort of end all all the other video game characters that i have running into walls, leaping off of buildings, in the like, but miraculously, somehow no matter how i slice the numbers, sonic is 100 percent fine. on the low end 1,000 newtons is the average bite force of an adult.  about 225 pounds of a force. which is the force that body-builders can achieve lifting huge weights. obviously, it's not going to be breaking any bones. at our maximum force calculation of 2,385 newtons, there is a chance that sonic could tear his acl which will technically tear a 2,312 newtons of force. but, that's only if you're gonna take the force on one leg from a couple of vary specific angles. meaning that in most cases sonic is going to be completely fine. if we had any chance at breaking a bone, we'd need to almost double the ammount of force on sonic's legs. up to about 4,000 newtons to break his tibia. and even higher if we wanted a thiccer (thicker) bone to break. or his bones to shatter. it just turns out in the game whether the designers meant to or not they made sonic, 1; light enough, 2; slow enough and 3; gave him enough stopping distance to slow him down in a safe manor. i can't believe i'm saying this, but, it looks like sonic got me. ooor did he? i measured his speed in a variety of 2d games using a variety of speed boosters. but what if sonic is truly able to roll around at the speed of sound like the song indicates it turns out that if ya run the numbers, the stopping distance from sonic is gonna be about 69 meters. and the force of the stop would be 29,842 newtons 30 thousand newtons. which is more than enough the shatter most of the bones in sonic's body. huzzah! and yes, that's the sound of me celebrating a fictional hedgehog breaking every single bone in his body... because here's the long story short, if sonic truly lived up to his own height, he'd be completely debilitated every time he tried to stop so it's here, loyal theorists, that i leave you with a choice. either, sonic destroys his body every time he fires up his top speed, or we can just agree that sonic is slow.but hey that's just a theory, a game theory. hope you enjoyed it, dominic! if you want to see my first ever controversial "sonic is slow" theory, then speed your way over to the box on the left. look at how much more sophisticated the process has gotten since the last 6 years i'm actually impressed. we've come a long way. long gone are the dayz (days) where i strung a bunch of sonic png's together and then based sonic's time to run that distance by the time it took a speedrunner to get through the level. or race your way over the the subscribe button! where, if we finally hit 20 million subscribers, we'll be able to do another physics of sonic the hedgehog video. you made it this deep into this video where only 10 million subscribers away!  hey everyone, gaijin goomba here. okay, before we get in today's episode i have an important announcement to make. after this video, culture shock is going to be moving to my channel for the foreseeable future. no, there's nothing going on between me and mat or any of the other staff for that matter, we're still more than cool with each other. this is more of a technical thing because of youtube's changes in how it promotes videos to viewers. due to these changes, both mat and i think it be best if i house my core content on my channel and see where things go from there. but culture shock isn't done. far from it. with every new game released, there's something to dissect and discover. so as long as people are still wanting to watch a culture shock in its new home over on my channel, i will never stop making it, but for my last video here on the theorist channel, i've been racking my brain trying to decide what would make for the most appropriate episode. there's something big i need to talk about when it comes to the newest god of war game as i think i may have stumbled onto a clue that gives us a look into where the series is going for the next five to eight years, but for my last video here on the game theorists channel, i wanted to cover something that highlights the legacy of what i've been trying to leave over the last six years, the core idea of how some of the most popular games we've ever seen are completely rooted in the living, breathing culture that surrounds us and really, there's no better example than pokémon. this is a franchise that i swear is going to completely take over the world if it hasn't already. i mean, for crying out loud, this is a game series that has continued to dominate over three generations of gamers, and there's no slowing down for it. i'm 32 years old, yet i still have vivid memories of playing for the first time back when i was only 12, and i don't have that many childhood memories. yet, even as an adult, i find myself enthralled by pokemon's modern incarnations with games like pokemon x&amp;y, sun and moon, and lordy, we can't forget pokemon go. the mass cultural effect in that game on the us alone moved mountains. thousands of players, complete strangers, coming together to chase after pieces of augmented reality data. it was so huge, it even made its way into politics. "i'm trying to figure out how we get them to have pokemon go to the polls." and e3, holy crap! the announcements about these new pokemon games alone were more than enough to get people hyped without all the information drops we got this year, and if you still doubt the absolute power of pokémon, just look at the pokemon gold and silver beta leaks that came out earlier this month. all we had were a handful of sprites and people went nuts over it, making everything from artistic recreations to freaking (poke)dex entries by fans. as a gamer, it's a series that stuck with not just me, but hundreds of thousands of people over 30 years and it's not stopping anytime soon but as a theorist, i can't even begin to explain how the cultural references in these games have influenced me as a content creator over the last six years. i've made dozens of videos talking about the culture and folklore this franchise borrows from as far back as august of 2012. to earlier this year, but in all my years of picking apart pokemon from a multicultural level, there's one thing i've noticed about this franchise: no matter how diverse pokemon gets with its designs or locations, game-freaking(?) nintendo bring to every generation of pokémon  folklore flavor from japan. i mean, just earlier this month the pokemon center announced a new line of merchandise in the theme of hyakki yagyou, or night parade of a hundred demons, one of the most recognizable things when dealing with japanese yokai monsters, with except, well, pokémon. i mean it too. every generation of pokemon has at least one or two direct references to japan's folklore. like take drowzee and hypno, for example, gen one pokémon. as a kid, i thought these were some kind of composite hippo creatures, but no, they're literally one-to-one with a well-known yokai called the baku, a tapir-like creature said to eat the dreams of humans, and while recently, they've taken on a more benevolent position, only eating nightmares for the good of all, they've been described as monsters who devour all dreams, potentially devouring people's hopes and desires, and leaving their prey a depressed husk of humanity. so yeah, you can thank the baku exclusively for these guys,as well as their signature move, dream eater. but he's not the only one with the direct connection to japanese yokai, you've also got shiftry, a gen 3 dark-grass type who also has a one-to-one connection with an ill-tempered mountain spirit known as a tengu, more specifically, a subcategory known as an o-tengu. while there were lesser karasu tengu, who are half- human, half-crow, o-tengu were the alpha of the species, who typically had long flowing black or white hair, a long pointed nose, wore single-toothed geta sandals, possessed dark powers to create illusions, which they used to ambush humans, and finally o-tengu would wield ha-uchiwa fans that allowed them to control the winds themselves. one look at shiftry's design and moveset, and yeah, it's all there. the nose, the hair, the geta, the fan, a move set based on backstabbing in the wind, it's all there. heck, pokémon's japanese references are so dense that sometimes they didn't even bother borrowing monster folklore and just straight-up took concepts from ancient artifacts. in gen 4, despite their underwhelming appearance, bronzor and bronzong are both modeled after critically important religious symbols of shinto and buddhism. in the case of bronzor, it's modeled after one of japan's three sacred treasures, the legendary mirror known as yata no kagami, or the eight handed mirror. mirrors by themselves represent truth and wisdom based on the idea that looking into it reflects back all things both ugly and beautiful, but this particular mirror had a very important role to play in literally saving the world, according to shinto. in a world before humanity, amaterasu, goddess of the sun, sealed herself away in a stone called amano-iwato after her jackass brother susanoo destroyed her fields and trashed her house. without the sun, darkness and demons walked the land unopposed so in a clever plan to get amaterasu back out, the rest of the kamis started feasting and celebrating. one goddess in particular, uzume no mikoto, got everyone's attention by dancing topless on a tub. this definitely got amaterasu curious, but she wasn't fully captivated until she saw her own reflection in the yata no kagami, which clever uzume  tied to a tree earlier. seeing her own radiant glory in the reflection and understanding her own importance, amaterasu withdrew from hiding, and the sun returned to the world. not a bad origin story for such a simple looking pokémon, huh? but even it's more bizarre evolution, bronzong, has its own unique cultural roots. it's modeled after what's known as a doutaku bell, which has origins as old as 400 bce. these bells were sometimes used as warning sirens, but their true purpose was for community agricultural rituals to help literally ring in a good harvest. some historians also speculate that these bells were used to summon rain, but there's not much evidence to prove that, save for a few inscriptions, and when they weren't in use,  the bells were actually buried with the intention of allowing the life force of the earth to funnel into it. knowing this, it explains all of bronzong's pokedex entries. and as for the relation of bronzong and bronzor's evolutionary line, i suggest you check out an old folk story called "of a mirror and a bell", a pretty tragic tale of a lonely woman who lost her prized mirror to some greedy priest who wanted to make a sweet bell for their temple, and the revenge she got on them after death. next up, we got gen 5 that had darumaka and darmanitan, two pokémon whose origins plainly come from daruma dolls. now back in the 5th century, daruma, also known as bodhidharma, was the bringer of zen buddhism from india to china, and subsequently japan. he brought with him countless teachings but the one principle he was most famous for was his meditation practices. zen buddhism teaches a very specific technique of sitting absolutely still, fixating your eyes on a very specific spot on the floor or wall, and enter[ing] a trance state where thoughts will flow in and out of the mind like water, never once allowing a particular thought to linger too long in the mind. in the state of meditation, what feels like moments to the meditator becomes hours of time, frozen like stone as thoughts flow in and out of the mind. having done this for myself during my study abroad, i can tell you right now that 45 minutes felt like five in this state, and this is exactly where darmanitan gets its meditative stone form from. but then you got darumaka's ability to pull in its arms and legs into its body and that forms connection to the ball-like appearance of the daruma doll. and this is where the cultural relationship gets pretty morbid. during a nine years (???) meditation session, it's believed that bodhidharma's limbs suffered from atrophy from non-use. yeah, basically he stayed still for so long that his arms and legs fell off, which is why daruma dolls lack appendages, and why darumaka can be seen without limbs. and there are even times that different pokémon in multiple generations fall under the same cultural origin. take, for example, stantler, deerling/sawsbuck, and xerneas. all of them look drastically different, but all of them fall under one reference: sika deer. generally speaking, the only unique thing about sika deer in the modern era involve those that live within nara park, 1,200 deer that roamed the park in search of man-made deer cookies, and you better believe they'll do anything for them. but culturally speaking, deer played a vastly important role in ancient japan. sika deer are said to be messengers of the takemikazachi no mikoto, who resides in the kasuga shrine in nara. east asian alchemists also have claimed that their horn had strange and powerful properties which became the base for several tonics and potions that would restore one's spirit. this may explain the numerous pokedex entries talking about the mysterious properties and subsequent poaching of stantler horns. and not to mention route 36, where you actually find stantler next to violet city, is geographically identical to nara when comparing a map of johto to japan. as for dealing in sawsbuck,  their unique characteristic of changing appearance based on season is also shared by the sika deer. sika will change their pelt based on seasons from light reddish-brown in the warm months to dark brown and even black in the winter, similar to deerling and sawsbuck's autumn and winter forms. and finally you've got xerneas, the cosmic legendary deer pokémon, said to give regenerative life when its horns on its head glow. while most people have attributed this legendary pokemon to celtic deities like cernunnos, it's possible that this pokémon's life-giving properties comes from sika deer, as believed during the nara period. according to the harima fudoki and based on ancient descriptions of deer on nara period doutaku bells, people would sow rice plant seeds with the blood of deer as they believe that deer possessed a mystical power of regeneration, which was personified in their horns, which they grew, shed, and regrew every year. just as xerneas shares its eternal life force with its horns as a conduit, nara period folk believe that sika deer had equal powers of regeneration through their blood and their horns. even within the most recent generation of pokémon ultra sun and moon, not one, but two of the brand-new ultra (???) have folklore inspirations taken right out of japan's history: stakataka, codenamed ub assembly, and kartana, codenamed ub04 blade. on the surface, kartana's origins might seem simple enough. i mean, it's origami, plain and simple, but what folks might not know is that kartana's style of origami isn't as simple as a crane or a helmet. kartana's origami style is what's known as a noshi and has been an important part of customary gift-giving and offering since the 12th century. back then paper was extremely hard to come by. sheets were difficult to make, which made them only available to the rich. because of this, noshi became a sort of good luck talisman that would be attached to gifts between samurai and other high-class people for all manner of customary celebrations: weddings, promotions, graduations, and so on. this is one possible explanation for the samurai-esque style of the pokémon, though i have to say, if kartana kept the original design of noshi, instead of glimmering gold accents, it would be sporting long pieces of dried fish. but then there's also theories going around that kartana is actually shikigami; basically a paper homunculus that serves the will of an onmyodo priest. but let's wrap up with stakataka. at first glance, this walking fortress of bricks with eyes might seem like someone's drug-induced fever dream, but in actuality, it shares the semblance with yet another japanese yokai, known as mokumokuren, or many eyes, which, to be honest, is equally horrifying. the mokumokuren started off as a regular shoji paper screen door, but after falling into disrepair with several holes punched through its paper, monstrous eyeballs began forming in the holes. and if having a living wall staring at you all night wasn't bad enough, the mokumokuren was said to be able to steal your eyes while you slept. while there's little in the pokedex that can prove stakataka is based on the mokumokuren, the fact that each of the stakata's eye plates are technically individual life forms is scarily similar to the idea of mokumokuren being made of dozens of other people's eyeballs. oh, and these are just pokémon, guys. i even mentioned the fact that the first four generations of pokemon actually take place in japan, if the maps are be to be believed. but that's a video all its own. but you know, the craziest thing about trying to culturally analyze this franchise is that even if i were to break down every single pokemon to its japanese reference, i'd still only be halfway done. one of the things that pokemon has done that i've seen few japanese rpgs, let alone japanese games themselves do, is expand beyond their borders. as pokémon gained worldwide popularity over the years, so too did it broaden its realms of inspiration. what start off as kanto, johto, sinnoh, hoenn, and the sevii islands, all references to real-life locations in japan within the first few game entries, evolved into locations that were inspired from places all over the world, like pokemon black and white's take on new york with unova, or x and y's take on paris, france with kalos, or even the hawaiian islands in sun and moon with alola, and with them came even more brand new pokemon who took inspirations from their homeland. and i admit, it's actually kind of daunting as a cultural theorist to even try to piece together all these connections, but i think it's really important to do so, because in the many years i've been a game theorist, the greatest joy that i found in my work isn't the fact that i've learned so many fascinating and esoteric aspects about the culture of the world but the fact that so many of you have been enjoying it. every meet-up, every con, every signing that i've done, i've met countless people who tell me about all the things that they've learned through my videos, and as someone whose lifelong dream has been to just learn and teach, i couldn't have asked for more. for every view on a video, for every dollar that someone put into my patreon, and for every person who decided to swing by my twitch stream, i've been completely blessed by all of you. you are the ones who made the stream possible for me, and it's because of you guys that i can keep bringing culture to gaming and beyond. so from the bottom of my heart, from the bottom of our hearts, we want to say thank you for making culture shock such a monumental achievement in our lives. as the series continues over on my channel, gaijin goomba media, e hope you'll join us in our never-ending pursuit to learn all we can about the world around us through our favorite games. heck, like i mentioned earlier, i've been non-stop digging into the pokemon franchise for cultural references and it's taken me everywhere from japan to china to ireland to hawaii to south america to inside the ring of professional wrestling, and there's still so much to look into, like learning how absolutely legit greninja is as a historically accurate ninja, all of which you can check out over on my channel. like i said, culture shock isn't even close to being complete, so i dearly hope you come along with us as we continue our journey to bring culture to gaming, but either way guys, as i've always said, until next time, this is gaijin goomba, signing out.